2.4. CHENTSOV'S THEOREM AND SOME HISTORICAL REMARKS 39 
of X. Here, we shall only observe that Chentsov's theorem leads to the Fisher 
metric and the Q-connections for a model S = {p(x; £)} on an infinite set X if 
a kind of limiting procedure is permitted. 
First, let us finitely partition X into the regions 61,62,-•• ,Sn. In other 
words, each Si is a subset of X, Si n 6j = 0 (i ^ j), and U™=1 6t = X. Now fix a 
particular partition A = {Si, ■ ■ ■,Sn} and let 
Pa (£;;£) d= / p(x;£)dx. 
Jst 
Then 5a = {pa (£?;;£)} forms a model on A. Since A is a finite set, from 
Chentsov's theorem we know that the Fisher metric and the Q-connections are 
introduced on 5a by the invariance requirement. Now we may consider 5 to 
be the limit of 5a as A becomes finer and finer. Hence, if we require that the 
desired metrics and connections on models should be "continuous" with respect 
to such a limit, it is concluded that the metric and the connections on 5 should 
be given by the limit of the Fisher metric and the Q-connections on 5a, and 
under some regularity condition they coincide with the Fisher metric and the 
Q-connections on 5. 
Let us now mention some history. The actual idea of considering statistical 
models as a manifold and analyzing them from the point of view of differential 
geometry is quite old. C.R. Rao had already pointed out in the 1945 paper [190] 
that the Fisher information matrix determines a Riemannian metric, and had 
written on the importance of analyzing model structures from the perspective 
of Riemannian geometry. After this, there were a variety of efforts to pursue 
this line of research, but unfortunately very few of these produced results which 
related directly back to statistical problems. 
In 1975, B. Efron [83] introduced the notion of "statistical curvature" for 1- 
parameter models, and found that it serves an important role in the asymptotic 
theory of statistical estimation. Building on this result, A.P. Dawid [76]  
introduced a connection on the space V of all the positive probability distributions 
and showed that the statistical curvature could be expressed as the embedding 
curvature with respect to this connection. This connection is the e-connection 
introduced above. In addition, Dawid pointed out that it was possible to  
introduce a variety of connections on V, and as examples gave the Riemannian 
connection with respect to the Fisher metric (the 0-connection) and the m- 
connection. However, in general V is a difficult space to treat rigorously since 
it is of infinite dimension, and cannot even be viewed as an infinite-dimensional 
manifold in the usual sense (; see the next section). Amari [5, 6], in 1980, 
reformulated Dawid's discussion by "projecting" them onto finite-dimensional 
models, and introduced the natural generalization to Q-connections. In addition, 
the importance of considering the e-connection and the m-connection as a pair 
was clearly shown for the first time. This result leads to the topic of the next 
chapter, that of understanding the structure of dual connections. The notion of 
the duality of connections was introduced by Nagaoka and Amari [161] in 1982, 
where the general theory of dually flat spaces was developed to provide a math- 
