4.6. ASYMPTOTICS OF FISHER INFORMATION 
97 
is an asymptotic expansion for large N, and even when the number of terms is 
taken to be large, convergence is not necessarily guaranteed. 
Finally, we make some remarks on the bias correction. We first emphasize 
its dependence on the choice of coordinate system. For example, the bias- 
corrected maximum likelihood estimator ii*n j e depends on the parameterization 
(coordinate system) u of the model, while the original estimator umj.e. does not. 
The purpose of the bias correction is just to compensate for the dependence of 
the mean square error on the parameterization. More precisely, the difference 
of the mean square errors of two bias-corrected first-order efficient estimators 
turns out to be a tensor, so that we may compare them in a geometrically 
invariant manner. We should also note that the second-order efficiency defined 
above is the optimality, up to the order of ^, of a bias-corrected estimator 
compared to all other bias-corrected estimators. In fact, it is sometimes possible 
to improve a second-order efficient estimator, in the sense of the mean square 
error up to the order of -^-, by adding a bias term. However, the superiority 
of the resulting estimator depends on the manner of parameterization, because 
the mean square error is not geometrically invariant. The bias correction is 
thus needed to discuss the asymptotic optimality in terms of the mean square 
error. Another way to discuss the asymptotic optimality of estimators is to 
consider a geometrically invariant criterion, rather than the mean square error, 
to measure the accuracy of estimation. Recently, a remarkable progress in this 
direction was made by Eguchi and Yanagimoto [88], where some notions from 
the vector analysis and the harmonic analysis have been introduced in the world 
of information geometry. See also Komaki [123], where the problem of higher- 
order optimal prediction including the analysis based on the Bayesian framework 
is studied from an information geometrical point of view. 
4.6 Asymptotics of Fisher information 
The information contained in the observed data concerning the underlying  
distribution may be expressed using the Fisher information matrix. The information 
contained in a single data point x is gab, while that contained in a collection of 
N data points xN, which is summarized by the sufficient statistic x, is Ngab. 
We express them as gab{X) = gab and gab(XN) = gab(X) = Ngab. Now let 
be a statistic which is a function of x. Unless / is invertible, one cannot recover 
x from y, and hence in general the Fisher information contained in y is less than 
Ngab. The Fisher information contained in y is given by the covariance matrix 
of da\ogp(y;u), 
9ab(Y) = E[da\ogp(Y;u)db\ogp(Y;u)}, (4.49) 
where p (y; u) is the probability density of y, and u is the underlying parameter. 
According to Theorem 2.1 in §2.2, we have 
gab{X) = Ngab = gab{Y) + Agab(Y), (4.50) 
