Vlll 
PREFACE 
is being currently applied to allow the investigation of hitherto unexplored  
possibilities. 
The utility of information geometry, however, is not limited to these fields. It 
has, for example, been productively applied to areas such as statistical physics 
and the mathematical theory underlying neural networks. Further, dualistic 
differential geometric structure is a general concept not inherently tied to  
probability distributions. For example, the interior method for linear programming 
may be analyzed from this point of view, and this suggests its relation to  
completely integrable dynamical systems. Finally, the investigation of the  
information geometry of quantum systems may lead to even further developments. 
This book presents for the first time the entirety of the emerging field of 
information geometry. To do this requires an understanding of at least the 
fundamental concepts in differential geometry. Hence the first three chapters 
contain an introduction to differential geometry and the recently developed  
theory of dual connections. An attempt has been made to develop the fundamental 
framework of differential geometry as concisely and intuitively as possible. It 
is hoped that this book may serve generally as an introduction to differential 
geometry. Although differential geometry is said to be a difficult field to  
understand, this is true only of those texts written by mathematicians for other 
mathematicians, and it is not the case that the principal ideas in differential 
geometry are hard. Nevertheless, this book introduces only the amount of  
differential geometry necessary for the remaining chapters, and endeavors to do so 
in a manner which, while consistent with the conventional definitions in  
mathematical texts, allows the intuition underlying the concepts to be comprehended 
most immediately. 
On the other hand, a comprehensive treatment of statistics, system theory, 
and information theory, among others, from the point of view of information 
geometry is for each distinct, relying on properties unique to that particular 
theory. It was beyond the scope of this book to include a thorough description 
of these fields, and inevitably, many of the relevant topics from these areas are 
rather hastily introduced in the latter half of the book. It is hoped that within 
these sections the reader will simply gather the flavor of the research being 
done, and for a more complete analysis refer to the corresponding papers. To 
complement this approach, many topics which are still incomplete and perhaps 
consist only of vague ideas have been included. 
Nothing would make us happier than if this book could serve as an invitation 
for other researches to join in the development of information geometry. 
