6.4. GENERAL MULTITERMINAL INFORMATION 
143 
which are generalizations of those in Equation (6.9). Next, let V be a random 
variable similarly satisfying the Markov relation 
V-Y-X. (6.35) 
Then, corresponding to the rate constraint specified by Rx and Ry, we may 
consider a constraint imposed on U and V in terms of some information  
quantities like entropy or mutual information. Furthermore, this setting has a natural 
iVth extension in which we consider random variables Un and Vn satisfying the 
Markov relations 
UN-XN-YN and VN-YN-XN, (6.36) 
where XN and YN are the Nth. i.i.d. (independent and identically distributed) 
extensions of X and Y, respectively. 
Now, suppose instead of the codes rhx{xN) and rhy(yN), we send un and vN 
drawn from the sources Un and Vn which are correlated with xN and yN by the 
Markov relations above. We may view mjv and vn as noisy versions of rhx(xN) 
and rhy(yN), and hence this is a stochastic encoding. Then, corresponding to 
the original problem of finding the optimal encoding functions rhx : {xN} —» 
Mx and my : {yN} —* My under the rate constraint, an optimization problem 
for Un and Vn is naturally formulated, which now we are to pursue. 
This is a typical strategy in information theory, where for many classes of 
problems it is proved that there in fact exists a deterministic encoding system 
which has asymptotically equivalent characteristics to a stochastic one. The  
advantage of considering stochastic encodings is that, unlike the original problem 
for deterministic encodings, the corresponding problem is often reduced to the 
case when N = I. This is called the single-letterization of the problem. 
The questions we must address, then, may be decomposed into two parts: 
(i) Is the multiterminal statistical inference problem single-letterizable? 
If this is the case, then 
(ii) How do we solve the problem after single-letterizing? 
A geometric consideration of the distribution family {p (u, x,y,v)} answers  
question (ii). In other words, the solution can be obtained by decomposing the  
fourfold empirical distribution into a communicable portion consisting of  
marginalized distributions, and an uncommunicable portion consisting of distributions 
such as fjXY. 
On the other hand, Ahlswede and Brunashev [3] have made a pessimistic 
observation on the general single-letterizability of problems of multiterminal 
statistical inference. However, it might be possible to apply single-letterization 
to the conditional inference problem where we send (fjx,r)Y) at 0-rate as a 
supplemental message. It is expected that single-letterization or conditional 
single-letterization provides a key towards new developments. 
