104 4. STATISTICAL INFERENCE AND DIFFERENTIAL GEOMETRY 
This is also asymptotically distributed according to a x2-distribution. Rewriting 
this into 
X(x) = 2{D (x II u0) - D(x\\ um.i.e(x))} 
where D is the Kullback divergence, we see that B{uq) in this case coincides 
with the estimating submanifold A(uq) of um.i.e. • Therefore the test is  
efficient. Note that B(u) is not generally orthogonal to M for u ^ uq. However, 
if M is an exponential family, by the Pythagorean theorem we have \{x) = 
2D(umj,e(x) || uq), and hence this test turns out to be essentially the same as 
the Wald test. 
Besides these, there are well known tests such as the efficient-score (Rao) 
test, the locally most powerful test, and the conditional test, all of which are 
first-order efficient and equally powerful if one considers only the term Pri(t). 
However, when actually testing on a finite number of N samples, these tests 
behave quite differently. In order to investigate how and where these tests differ 
in quality, it is necessary to examine the higher-order terms Pr2(t) and Pr3(t)- 
The statistics of these first-order efficient tests are all distributed  
asymptotically according to the x2-distribution. However, for finite N, it is not reasonable 
to simply consider the x2-distribution when determining the interval In with 
which to define the acceptance region An •' A(£) £ In from the level a. Instead, 
it is necessary to consider the difference between the distribution of \{x) and the 
X2-distribution, and correct the acceptance region given by the x2-distribution 
so that the level a is correct up to order JV~~3/2 and the condition of unbiased- 
ness is satisfied up to order AT-1. This correction allows us to compare the tests 
from a common base and to correctly compute the higher-order terms of their 
power functions. 
Examining the Pr'iit) component of tests in this manner, it is possible,  
however, to prove that all first-order efficient tests have the same Priit). Hence 
we say that "first-order efficient tests are second-order efficient." It is  
necessary, therefore, to examine PT'i{t) for each test. As this term contains many 
components other than such geometrically meaningful quantities as metric or 
curvature, writing out the results of calculations can be rather tedious. Instead, 
we introduce a function P(t;N), which does not depend on each test T, and 
compute the difference of the power of T and this function. For each t and N, 
let 
P(t; N) = sup PT(t;N), 
T 
where the supremum is taken over all the efficient tests with the level a. In 
other words, P(t; N) = Pf (t; N) where Tt is the test which is most powerful at 
the point ut. Note that there is no test T satisfying Pr(t; N) = P(t; N) for all 
t in general. Now let 
APT(t)= lim N(P(t;N)-Pr(t;N)), (4.69) 
