180 
8. MISCELLANEOUS TOPICS 
by the conformally-projectively flatness: we say that (g,V) is conformally- 
projectively flat if there exist a coordinate system [£*] and two functions ip 
and tp on M such that 
Tij,k = (dk<p)gij - {(diip)gjk + (djip)gik} • (8.71) 
Conformal dualistic geometry, in which dualistic structures are transformed 
conformally, was developed by Okamoto, Amari and Takeuchi [175] from the 
theory of sequential estimation. In this variant of the estimation problem the 
number of observations are sequentially decided based on the information  
contained in what is already known. In a manner similar to the importance of 
curvature in statistical inference, conformal curvature plays an important role 
in sequential estimation. Conformal dualistic geometry also plays an important 
role within mathematics. 
We see, then, that in addition to its applications, information geometry poses 
interesting mathematical problems. We enumerate several of these below. 
(i) Find the condition(s) necessary for a given n-dimensional space with a 
dualistic structure to be realizable as an n-dimensional submanifold in 
Rm. Also, find the condition(s) necessary to be realizable as a pair of 
n-dimensional submanifolds in two m-dimensional mutually dual linear 
spaces V and V*. 
(ii) Find the condition(s) necessary for an n-dimensional space with a dualistic 
structure to be realizable as a submanifold of an m-dimensional dually flat 
space. 
(iii) Let (M,g) be a Riemannian space. We say that (M,g) can be flattened if 
there exist a pair of affine connections V and V* such that (M, g, V, V*) is 
dually flat. Show whether this is always possible. If not, find the invariant 
which characterizes those spaces which may be flattened. 
(iv) Develop the theory of infinite-dimensional spaces with dualistic structures. 
Two examples are: the geometry of the set consisting of all (or most)  
absolutely continuous probability density functions p(x) on R (as given, this 
is not a manifold), and the geometry of the infinite-dimensional space of 
stochastic processes. See §2.5, §4.8.2 and §5.2. Recently a nice  
mathematical foundation based on the theory of Orlicz space has been given to the 
first example by Pistone and his coworkers [189, 97, 188]. 
(v) Analyze the global structure of spaces with dualistic structures. 
(vi) Extend the notion of dualistic structure to the case when a Finsler metric 
is given instead of a Riemannian metric, and analyze spaces with such 
structures. This relates to non-regular families of probability distributions 
for which the central limit theorem does not work, and corresponds to 
stable distributions other than normal distributions. See Amari [8]. 
