Preface to the English 
Edition 
Information geometry provides a new method applicable to various areas  
including information sciences and physical sciences. It has emerged from  
investigating the geometrical structures of the manifold of probability distributions, and 
has applied successfully to statistical inference problems. However, it has been 
proved that information geometry opens a new paradigm useful for elucidation 
of information systems, intelligent systems, control systems, physical systems, 
mathematical systems, and so on. 
There have been remarkable progresses recently in information geometry. 
For example, in the field of neurocomputing, a set of neural networks forms a 
neuro-manifold. Information geometry has become one of fundamental  
methods for analyzing neurocomputing and related areas. Its usefulness has also 
been recognized in multiterminal information theory and portfolio, in nonlinear 
systems and nonlinear prediction, in mathematical programming, in statistical 
inference and information theory of quantum mechanical systems, and so on. 
Its mathematical foundations have also shown a remarkable progress. 
In spite of these developments, there were no expository textbooks covering 
the methods and applications of information geometry except for statistical 
ones. Although we published a booklet to show the wide scope of information 
geometry in 1993, it was unfortunately written in Japanese. It is our great 
pleasure to see its English translation. Mr. Daishi Harada has achieved an 
excellent work of translation. 
In addition to correction of many misprints and errors found in the Japanese 
edition, we have made revision and rearrangement throughout the manuscript 
to make it as readable as possible. Also we have added several new topics, and 
even new sections and a new chapter such as §2.5, §3.2, §3.5, §3.8 and Chapter 7. 
The bibliography and the guide to it have largely been extended as well. These 
works were done by the authors after receiving the original translation, and it 
is the authors, not the translator, who should be responsible for the English 
writing of these parts. 
This is a small booklet, however. We have presented a concise but  
comprehensive introduction to the mathematical foundation of information geometry 
in the first three chapters, while the other chapters are devoted to an overview 
IX 
