Preface 
Information geometry provides the mathematical sciences with a new framework 
for analysis. This framework is relevant to a wide variety of domains, and it 
has already been usefully applied to several of these, providing them with a 
new perspective from which to view the structure of the systems which they 
investigate. Nevertheless, the development of the field of information geometry 
can only be said to have just begun. 
Information geometry began as an investigation of the natural differential 
geometric structure possessed by families of probability distributions. As a 
rather simple example, consider the set S of normal distributions with mean /z 
and variance a2: 
By specifying (/z, a) we determine a particular normal distribution, and hence S 
may be viewed as a 2-dimensional space (manifold) which has (/z, a) as a  
coordinate system. However, this is not a Euclidean space, but rather a Riemannian 
space with a metric which naturally follows from the underlying properties of 
probability distributions. In particular, when S is a family of normal  
distributions, it is a space of constant negative curvature. The underlying characteristics 
of probability distributions lead not only to this Riemannian structure; an  
investigation of the structure of probability distributions leads to a new concept 
within differential geometry: that of mutually dual affine connections. In  
addition, the structure of dual affine connections naturally arises in the framework 
of affine differential geometry, and has begun to attract the attention of  
mathematicians researching differential geometry. 
Probability distributions are the fundamental element over which fields such 
as statistics, stochastic processes, and information theory are developed. Hence 
not only is the natural dualistic differential geometric structure of the space 
of probability distributions beautiful, but it must also play a fundamental role 
in these information sciences. In fact, considering statistical estimation from a 
differential geometric viewpoint has provided statistics with a new analytic tool 
which has allowed several previously open problems to be solved; information 
geometry has already established itself within the field of statistics. In the fields 
of information theory, stochastic processes, and systems, information geometry 
VII 
