134 
6. MULTITERMINAL INFORMATION THEORY 
statistical 
inference 
Figure 6.1: Statistical inference of a multiterminal information source. 
sequence of characters of length N generated by X, and y = y\ j/2 ■ ■ ■ Vn be the 
sequence of characters of length N generated by Y. Suppose that x and y are 
correlated, and that for each i, the pair {xi,yt) is sampled independently from 
the joint distribution p(x,y). When this distribution is parameterized over £, 
we write p(x,y;£). 
Each information source X and Y independently sends its message to a 
common receiver, whose task is to infer the probability distribution p(x,y). If 
xN and yN may be directly communicated to the receiver, then the problem 
reduces to a standard statistical inference problem over the N observations 
(xN,yN). Suppose, however, that the communication paths from X and Y 
to the receiver have capacities limiting the messages to Rx and Ry bits per 
character, respectively. Then it is not possible to send xN and yN, and it 
is necessary to use compression. We wish to investigate, with respect to this 
capacity (Rx,Ry), what quality of statistical inference is possible and what the 
appropriate corresponding coding techniques might be (see Figure 6.1.) 
Suppose, for example, that x and y are signals which take one of the two 
values 0 and 1, and that N = 1000, Rx = 0.3, and RY = 0.4. Then although X 
and Y both generates a sequence of 1000 bits, it is only possible for X to send 
an encoded 300 bits of informations, and Y is limited to 400 bits. The problem 
is to find the message which allows optimal inference of p(x,y). 
This kind of problem is peculiar to multiterminal theory. In order to clarify 
this, let us consider the case when there is simply a single information source X 
which generates a sequence of characters according to the distribution p (#;£). 
Then there is no need to send xN in order to estimate £. It suffices for the 
generator to compute the estimator £ = £(xi,- ■ ■,%), and send the value of 
£. In fact, since £ has an estimation error of order 
/N 
the actual message can 
consist of only the first log N digits of £ represented in base 10. Then since the 
information sent per character 
logiV 
N 
0 
as N grows large, the information needed for statistical inference may be sent 
asymptotically using 0 bits per character. When testing, only a single bit rep- 
