13 THE CONFORMAL MODEL:
   OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN
   GEOMETRY



In the previous chapters, we studied the geometric algebra version of the homogeneous
model. The homogeneous model of Euclidean geometry is reasonably effective since it lin-
earizes Euclidean transformations, and geometric algebra extends the classical homoge-
neous coordinate techniques nicely through its outermorphisms. However, we remarked
that we were not able to use the full metric products of geometric algebra, since the met-
ric of the model was only indirectly related to the metric of the Euclidean space we had
wanted to model.
Fortunately, we can do better. In the next few chapters, we present the new conformal
model for Euclidean geometry, which can represent Euclidean transformations as orthog-
onal transformations. Encoding those as versors, we get the full power of geometric alge-
bra, including the structure preservation of all constructions.
In this chapter, we start the exposition by deﬁning the new representational space (which
has two extra dimensions and an indeﬁnite metric) and showing what its vectors repre-
sent. The two extra dimensions are geometrically interpretable as the point at the origin
(as in the homogeneous model) and the point at inﬁnity (which nicely closes Euclidean
geometry, making translations into rotations around inﬁnity).
We then focus on how to represent the familiar ﬂats and directions already present in the
homogeneous model and how to move them around. As ﬁrst applications, we use the
                                           355
356                                        THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY       C H A P T E R 13




versor representation to provide straightforward closed-form interpolation of rigid body
motions and universally valid constructions for the reﬂection of arbitrary elements.
The natural coordinate-free speciﬁcation of elements and operations in the conformal
model is best appreciated using the interactive illustrations. Even more than in the pre-
vious chapters, we encourage you to play around with the interactive software provided
with this book.



13.1 THE CONFORMAL MODEL
The conformal model is especially designed for Euclidean geometry, which is the
geometry of transformations preserving the Euclidean distances of and within objects.
These Euclidean transformations are sometimes called isometries, and they include trans-
lations, rotations, reﬂections, and their compositions.
We will occasionally limit ourselves to Euclidean motions, which are the Euclidean trans-
formations that can be performed a little at a time. These are also known as rigid body
motions, and they consist of compositions of translations and rotations. They are proper
isometries, i.e., they preserve the Euclidean distances and handedness.
To emphasize that the conformal model involves the representation of Euclidean
geometry, we will denote the base space by En rather than Rn,0 . This notation is meant
to suggest that the group of Euclidean transformations is to be represented in the model
as well.

13.1.1 REPRESENTATIONAL SPACE AND METRIC
We start with some observations on points in a Euclidean space.
      •   A Euclidean space En has points at a well-deﬁned distance from each other. If two
          points P and Q were created by a translation over the Euclidean direction vectors p
          and q from some origin O, then their squared distance is d2E (P, Q) = p − q2 =
          (p − q) · (p − q). In many respects, these squared distances are more convenient
          to compute with than the actual distances; for instance, Pythagoras’ theorem states
          that squared distances can be added under certain conditions.
      •   Euclidean spaces do not really have an origin: there is no special ﬁnite point that can
          be distinguished from other points. If an origin is used, it is for convenience, as a
          point to relate other points to. Similarly, there are no preferential directions, though
          it may be convenient to deﬁne an arbitrary standard frame at the equally arbitrary
          origin.
      •   Mathematicians have long known that it is convenient to close a Euclidean space
          by augmenting it with a point at inﬁnity. (They call this compactiﬁcation.) That
          point at inﬁnity is a point in common to all lines and planes, and invariant under
S E C T I O N 13 . 1   THE CONFORMAL MODEL                                                                                              357




                              the Euclidean transformations. Having it explicit makes the algebraic patterns in
                              geometrical statement more universal.1
                       When constructing a model for Euclidean geometry, we take these properties as central.
                       The arbitrariness of the origin was something we wanted in the homogeneous model, and
                       it was partly achieved by assigning an extra dimension to it in a representational space. So
                       we need at least need an (n+1)-dimensional representational space. We are now also going
                       to assign an extra dimension to the special point at inﬁnity. In our model, we represent it
                       as a vector denoted as ∞, to remind us of what it is. (There will be no confusion with the
                       number inﬁnity.) This turns our representational space for the n-dimensional Euclidean
                       space En from (n + 1)-dimensional to (n + 2)-dimensional.
                       The interface between geometry and algebraic representation is that we represent Euclidean
                       points in En by representative vectors in the (n + 2)-dimensional representational vector
                       space. The inﬁnite point is represented by the vector ∞. A ﬁnite point P is represented by
                       a vector p, with certain additional properties that we specify below. Now we still have the
                       freedom to choose the metric of this representational space (and we must specify it if we
                       want to endow it with a geometric algebra). We use this metric to encode the Euclidean
                       distance in En . In view of the observed linear behavior of square distances we do so as
                       follows:
                                                                     p · q ∼ d2E (P, Q).                                           (13.1)

                       On the left you see the inner product of two vectors of the representational space; on
                       the right you see the squared distance of two points in the Euclidean space En . They are
                       directly proportional! (There are some scaling factors that we introduce below for back-
                       wards compatibility, but those are irrelevant to the principle of the setup.)
                       One immediate consequence of this deﬁnition of the metric is that a vector p representing
                       a ﬁnite point must obey p · p = 0, since the Euclidean distance of a point to itself is
                       zero: d2E (P, P) = 0. Therefore, Euclidean points are represented by null vectors in the
                       representational model. A null vector is a vector with norm zero; in a Euclidean space,
                       such a vector would have to be the zero vector, and we could not use that to denote a
                       great variety of points. So the (n + 2)-dimensional representational space must be non-
                       Euclidean.
                       Null vectors may seem strange, but it is fairly easy to make them in a manner that feels
                       only moderately irregular. We may alternatively construct the (n + 2)-dimensional rep-
                       resentational space by augmenting the regular n Euclidean dimensions with two special
                       dimensions, for which a basis is formed by two vectors e and e- that square to +1 and −1,
                       respectively, and that are orthogonal (so that e· e- = 0). Having these, it is easy to make null


                       1   The homogeneous model has location-independent directions, which we identiﬁed as being characterized by
                           improper points on the heavenly sphere, but this has a different ﬂavor than a single point at inﬁnity, which is a
                           location that one can approach from any direction. We will not lose those extra elements representing directions
                           for they are also found as elements in the new model.
358                                    THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY      C H A P T E R 13




                                      - and (e- − e) are both null without being zero, as you
vectors out of them: the vectors (e + e)
can check easily by squaring them. In this construction, the representational space has an
orthonormal basis consisting of (n + 1) positive dimensions (with basis vectors squaring
to +1) and 1 negative dimension (with basis vector squaring to −1). We therefore denote
it by Rn+1,1 . Such a space is called a Minkowski space in physics, where it has been well
studied to represent space-time in relativity; the negative dimension is then employed
to represent time. We will ﬁnd a geometrically more natural basis than e and e- for the
conformal model, but the representational space is still the metric space Rn+1,1 .
This (n + 2)-dimensional space requires n + 2 coefﬁcients to specify a vector. We should
require only n coefﬁcients to specify a point in Euclidean space, so there is more in this
space than we appear to need. Since points are represented by null vectors, their repre-
sentatives must obey p · p = 0, and this is a condition on their coefﬁcients that removes
one degree of freedom, leaving n + 1. The remaining degree of freedom we use to denote
the weight of the point, as in the homogeneous model. In that model, we retrieved the
weight as e0−1 · p, since it was the coefﬁcient of e0 ; in the present model we extract it by
the operation −∞ · p. The relationship of inner product to distance of (13.1) should of
course be deﬁned on properly normalized points, since it is independent of the weight,
so in that formula we should divide p by its weight, and q as well. We introduce an extra
scaling factor of − 21 for convenience later on, and actually deﬁne the inner product of
vectors representing points through

                               p      q
                                   ·       ≡ − 12 d2E (P, Q).                         (13.2)
                             −∞ · p −∞ · q

(The two minus signs on the left of course cancel each other, but we would like to get you
used to viewing −∞ · p as a weight-computing expression.) Equation (13.2) is in fact the
deﬁnition of the representational model; all the rest of the correspondence between ele-
ments of its geometric algebra and Euclidean geometry follows from it without additional
assumptions.
The model thus constructed was called the conformal model in the literature, for the
mathematical reason that it is capable of representing conformal transformations by ver-
sors. We will demonstrate that in Chapter 16, but prefer to focus on its use for Euclidean
transformations ﬁrst. We will show that it is an operational model for Euclidean geom-
etry in the double sense that Euclidean transformations are represented as structure-
preserving operators, which are moreover easy to put to operational use. In view of that,
we would prefer to call it the operational model for Euclidean computations. This is too
much of a mouthful, so we might as well conform to the term conformal model, despite
its arcane origins.
Even though the conformal model hit computer science only a few years ago, when it was
introduced by Hestenes et al. in 1999 [31], we are beginning to ﬁnd that we could have had
the pleasure of its use all along. Considerable elements of it are found in much older work,
and it appears to have been reinvented several times. We do not know the whole story yet,
S E C T I O N 13 . 1   THE CONFORMAL MODEL                                                                       359




                       but markers on the way are Wachter (a student of Gauss), Cox [9] and Forder 1941 [22]
                       (who used Grassmann algebra to treat circles and their properties), Anglès 1980 [2] (who
                       showed the crucial versor form of the conformal transformations) and Hestenes (who
                       had already presented it in his 1984 book [33] but only later realized its true importance
                       for Euclidean geometry). We are convinced that its time of general adaptation has ﬁnally
                       arrived, since the conformal model is much more clearly useful to actually programming
                       geometrical applications than it is to theorizing about geometry on paper.


                       13.1.2 POINTS AS NULL VECTORS
                       Let us be more precise about the point representation. As we realized before, the relation-
                       ship of the metric to the Euclidean distance implies that ﬁnite points are represented by
                       null vectors. What about the point at inﬁnity?
                       The point at inﬁnity is represented by ∞, and it should have inﬁnite distance to all ﬁnite
                       points. Substituting q = ∞ in (13.2), we ﬁnd that an inﬁnite result is reached only if we
                       set ∞ · ∞ = 0. This implies that the point at inﬁnity is also represented by a null vector.

                          Null vectors in the conformal model Rn+1,1 represent Euclidean points of En
                          (both ﬁnite and inﬁnite).

                       After you have gotten used to this correspondence, it becomes natural to identify repre-
                       sentative null vectors with points and talk about the null vector p as “the point p” rather
                       than as “representing the point P.” We will gradually slip into that convenient usage as
                       this chapter evolves.
                       We call a point p normalized or a unit point when its weight equals 1:

                                                               −∞ · p = 1

                       We may be tempted to select one special unit point O as the origin of our space and
                       represent it by a vector denoted o. It would then be a special vector in the conformal
                       model with the property o · ∞ = −1, as well as o · o = 0, by virtue of being a point. It
                       therefore appears to bear a special relationship to the vector ∞ representing the point
                       at inﬁnity: though both are null vectors, they are (minus) each other’s reciprocals in
                       the sense that o · ∞ = −1. That simpliﬁes the math of computing with them, and it
                       reveals that the weight of a point is the coefﬁcient of o of its representative vector (for a
                       coefﬁcient of a vector is retrieved by an inner product with its reciprocal, as we saw in
                       Section 3.8—so the o coefﬁcient is retrieved by an inner product with −∞). The strong
                       parallel with e0 and e0−1 in the homogeneous model suggests that an arbitrary unit point
                       might be writable as o + p, but this is not a null vector (it squares to p2 ). We should
                       use the extra dimension to represent a unit point as p = o + p + α ∞, with an α that
                       should be determined by the null vector condition p · p = 0. You can easily verify that
                       this gives
360                                                    THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY                         C H A P T E R 13




                                                  p = o + p + 12 p2 ∞                                                  (13.3)
as the representative null vector for a unit point relative to the origin o.2
Equation (13.3) resembles a coordinate representation of the vector p in terms of a purely
Euclidean location vector p and two extra terms in a {o, ∞}-basis for the extra two dimen-
sions of the conformal model. It is somewhat misleading: although ∞ indeed has special
signiﬁcance, the origin point o does not. Any unit point could have been used as origin; it
would have had the same relationships with ∞ (since any ﬁnite point p obeys −∞·p = 1),
and would merely have changed the value of the location vector p for the particular point
P we are considering. So (13.3) is deceptive in that it is too speciﬁc. Still, it is convenient
to have, since it gives a connection to the homogeneous representation (o is like e0 ), and
even to the vector space model (in exhibiting the Euclidean location vector p). You can
use it when you begin to work with the conformal model—as you advance, you will dare
to work coordinate-free, merely using the algebraic properties of the point p, and that will
make your formulas and algorithms more generally applicable.
But while we have this speciﬁc representation, let us use it to verify the consistency with
the original deﬁnition of the metric:

                                  p · q = (o + p + 12 p2 ∞) · (o + q + 21 q2 ∞)
                                         = − 12 q2 + p · q − 12 p2
                                         = − 12 (q − p)2 .                                                             (13.4)

Note how the metric of the conformal model plays precisely the right role to compose the
correct terms in the squared difference required to express the Euclidean distance. So the
conformal model indeed does what it was designed to do.
Letting p become large in (13.3), the dominant term is proportional to +∞. This shows
the reason for our choosing the normalization such that ∞ · p is negative: now +∞ is
positively proportional to (the vector representing) the point at inﬁnity.
We are especially interested in the Euclidean space E3 , and when required, we use an
orthonormal basis {e1 ,e2 ,e3 } for that part of the representation. That leaves the other
two elements in the basis of Rn+1,1 . Earlier, we brieﬂy introduced the basis {e, e}
                                                                                   - with
                                                                        1 ,1
their squares of +1 and −1, and that would work as basis for the part R . But it is often
geometrically more signiﬁcant to make a change of basis to the two null vectors o and
∞, representing our arbitrary origin and the point at inﬁnity. These null vectors can be
deﬁned in terms of e and e- as


2     We should mention that the standards in this new model have not quite been established yet, and you may ﬁnd
      other authors with different deﬁnitions and notations of the elements we have denoted ∞ and o, differing by a
      factor of ±1 or ±2 with our deﬁnition. For instance, in [15] our ∞ is their −n, and our o is their − 12 n- , so that their
      point representation reads p = p2 n + 2p − n- , with normalization p · n = 2. Any rescaling of ∞ is a trivial change to
      the conformal model, not affecting its structure in any way, though it is a bit annoying in cross-referencing texts
      from various sources. Always check the local deﬁnitions! We will give our reasons for our choices.
S E C T I O N 13 . 1   THE CONFORMAL MODEL                                                                                     361




                                                             o = 21 (e + e),
                                                                         - ∞ = e- − e,                                   (13.5)

                       giving conversely
                                                            e = o − 12 ∞; e- = o + 12 ∞.                                 (13.6)
                       So in terms of a basis, this is just a simple coordinate change in the representational
                       subspace with pseudoscalar e ∧ e- = o ∧ ∞. We reiterate that any ﬁnite unit point could
                       have been used instead of o without changing these deﬁning equations (picking another
                       point as origin merely changes where we attach the Euclidean part En to the basis for R1,1 ,
                       and therefore just changes the Euclidean vectors by an offset). For E3 , the basis elements
                       have the inner product multiplication tables of Table 13.1. We can deﬁne the pseudoscalar
                       by I3 = e1 ∧ e2 ∧ e3 .
                       But throughout the remainder, we will avoid the use of the basis to specify elements. We
                       shall hardly need it, for the Euclidean covariance properties of the conformal model will
                       make computations in it delightfully coordinate-free.

                       13.1.3 GENERAL VECTORS REPRESENT DUAL PLANES
                              AND SPHERES
                       By construction, some of the vectors in the representational space Rn+1,1 represent
                       weighted points of the Euclidean space; namely all null vectors, which must satisfy
                       p · p = 0. Yet there are many more vectors in Rn+1,1 . We should investigate whether those
                       are also useful to represent elements of Euclidean geometry. And indeed they are: we will
                       ﬁnd that they are generally dual spheres (with points and dual planes included as special
                       cases for radius zero and inﬁnity, respectively).
                       To determine what such a nonnull vector v signiﬁes, we should somehow use our funda-
                       mental deﬁnition of (13.2), since that is all that we have up to this point. Therefore we
                       probe the vector v with a unit point x, solving the equation x · v = 0 to ﬁnd out what v is
                       when considered as deﬁning a Euclidean point set in this manner. Note that this already
                       implies that we interpret a vector v as the dual representation of some Euclidean element.




                          T a b l e 13.1: Multiplication table for the inner product of the conformal model of 3-D Euclidean
                          geometry E3 , for two choices of basis.


                                 e      e1      e2      e3       e-                      o       e1      e2      e3       ∞
                          e      1      0       0       0        0              o        0       0       0        0      −1
                         e1      0      1       0       0        0              e1       0       1       0        0       0
                         e2      0      0       1       0        0              e2       0       0       1        0       0
                         e3      0      0       0       1        0              e3       0       0       0        1       0
                          e-     0      0       0       0       −1             ∞        −1       0       0        0       0
362                                                  THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY                        C H A P T E R 13




It is perhaps a bit surprising that we meet these dual representations of elements before
the direct interpretations. (Actually, something similar happened with the vectors of the
homogeneous model. There, a vector of the form e0 + p represented a point, a vector of
the form u was a direction, and a vector n − δe0−1 = n ∓ δe0 represented a dual plane).

      •   Null Vector p = α (o + p + 12 p2 ∞): Point. We may as well ﬁrst verify that this prob-
          ing procedure gives the right interpretation for a general null vector of the form we
          saw before. Our earlier computation (13.4) gives x · p = − 21 α (p − x)2 , so that this
          is zero if and only if x = p. Therefore x must be a point at the same location as p,
          albeit possibly with a different weight.3
          As we have seen, a vector p representing a point satisﬁes p2 = 0, and ∞ · p = −α.
          These properties deﬁne this class of vector of Rn+1,1 representing a point of En . The
          prototype of this class is the vector o representing the point O at the arbitrary origin.
      •   Vector without o Component: π = n + δ∞: Dual Plane. A vector π without an
          o component has the general form π = n + δ∞. It clearly does not represent a
          Euclidean point. We probe it to ﬁnd out what it is in the Euclidean space:

                                 x · π = (o + x + 21 x2 ∞) · (n + δ∞) = x · n − δ,

          and demanding this to be zero retrieves the familiar dual plane equation for a plane
          with normal vector n at a distance δ/n from the origin. Therefore, the vector π
          dually represents a Euclidean plane. We will denote dual planes by π-based symbols
          (and direct planes by symbols based on Π).
          Such a dual plane vector satisﬁes ∞ · π = 0 and π2 = n2 , deﬁning the type. The
          equation ∞·π = 0 can be interpreted as: ∞ lies on the dual plane π. The prototypical
          member of this class is the vector n of Rn+1,1 that lies completely in its subspace En
          (and hence is denoted in bold font).
      •   General Vector σ± = α (c ∓ 12 ρ2 ∞): Dual Sphere. A general vector can be made as a
          scaled version of a null vector with an additional amount of ∞-component to make
          it nonnull. Let us write it as σ = α (c + β ∞), with c a unit point representative (so
          that c2 = 0, and −∞ · c = 1). Then we ﬁnd
                                                                              
                             x · σ = α (x · c + β x · ∞) = α − 12 d2E (x,c) − β .

          Requiring this to be zero gives the equation x − c2 = −2β, where we substituted
          the Euclidean distance between x and c as x − c. If β is negative, we redeﬁne it as
          β = − 12 ρ2 , and obtain


3     Note however that there is something slightly uncomfortable going on: strictly speaking, if x is a point, then p
      must be the dual representation of a point (since it is the solution of x·p = 0), rather than the direct representation
      (which would be the solution of x∧p = 0). Strangely enough, p is both, due to the special nature of null vectors. For
      x∧p = 0 is certainly valid for x = p, and computing: x∧p = (o+x+ 12 x2 ∞)∧α (o+p+ 21 p2 ∞) = α o∧(p−x)+· · ·, and
      already the ﬁrst term shows that we can only make this zero by having x = p, so that x = p is indeed the unique
      solution. We get back to the dual nature of the point representation when we treat the plunge in Section 15.1.
S E C T I O N 13 . 1   THE CONFORMAL MODEL                                                                                363




                                                                    x − c2 = ρ2 .
                            We recognize the equation of a sphere with center at the location c, and radius ρ.

                                 A general vector of the form σ = α (c − 12 ρ2 ∞) dually represents a Euclidean
                                 sphere with center c and radius ρ, and weight α.

                            If β is positive, we can set it equal to 12 ρ2 , and we obtain the equation
                                                                   x − c2 = −ρ2 .
                            By analogy, this represents an imaginary sphere whose squared radius is negative.
                            We do not need complex numbers to deﬁne it as long as we only represent squares
                            of distances (which is indeed all that entered our model by its deﬁnition).
                                 A general vector of the form σ = α (c + 12 ρ2 ∞) dually represents an imaginary
                                 sphere with center c and squared radius −ρ2 , and weight α.

                            These imaginary spheres may appear useless, but they occur naturally as solutions
                            to intersections and in duality computations. They keep our algebra consistent and
                            closed, and we will try to develop a feeling for them (yes, you can learn to see imag-
                            inary spheres, in Section 15.1.3).
                            The dual sphere vectors satisfy σ2 = ±α2 ρ2 and −∞ · σ = α, so that a unit-weight
                            sphere has the same square as its radius. The null vectors representing points can
                            now be viewed as (dual) spheres of zero radius, which makes good geometric sense.
                            Prototypical examples of this class are the vectors e = o − ∞/2 and e- = o + ∞/2,
                            which represent the real and imaginary unit spheres at the origin.

                       This completes the Euclidean interpretation of the representational vectors in the con-
                       formal model; the results are collected in Table 13.2. The extension of the homogeneous



                          T a b l e 13.2: The interpretation of vectors in the conformal model.


                         Element                        Form                                      Characteristics


                         Point                          p = α (o + p + 12 p2 ∞)             p2 = 0          −∞ · p = 0

                         Dual plane                     π = n + δ∞                         π2 = 0          −∞ · π = 0

                         Dual real sphere               σ = α (p − 12 ρ2 ∞)             σ2 = ρ2 > 0         −∞ · σ = 0

                         Dual imaginary sphere          σ = α (p + 12 ρ2 ∞)             σ2 = ρ2 < 0         −∞ · σ = 0
364                                      THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY      C H A P T E R 13




model by the extra dimension ∞, and the modiﬁcation of the metric, have already given
us (dual) spheres as typical Euclidean elements (with a point as a zero-radius sphere and
a plane as an improper sphere that passes through inﬁnity). This carries it beyond the
homogeneous model, which could only represent ﬂats. Clearly the set of transformations
preserving properties of spheres are more limited than those preserving properties of ﬂats,
so the conformal model will be more speciﬁcally tailored to Euclidean geometry than the
homogeneous model. The afﬁne transformations in particular, which preserved the ﬂats of
the homogeneous model, are no longer all admissible since they may not preserve spheres.
This loss is in fact a gain: the added precision makes the conformal model much more
powerful for the treatment of Euclidean transformations than the homogeneous model.
We are obviously going to invoke the geometric algebra structure of the conformal model
to make more involved elements from the dual planes and dual spheres at our disposal, but
this will have to wait until the next chapter. In this chapter, we explore how the Euclidean
transformations can be represented in the new model, and how that improves and extends
the capabilities of the homogeneous model.


13.2 EUCLIDEAN TRANSFORMATIONS AS VERSORS
The crucial Euclidean property of point distance was embedded in terms of the inner
product of the representational space Rn+1,1 by (13.2). Euclidean transformations in En
are isometries: they preserve distances of points, so they should be represented by trans-
formations of Rn+1,1 that preserve the inner product. Such transformations are therefore
orthogonal transformations of the representational space. We know from Section 7.6 that
geometric algebra can represent orthogonal transformations as versors. Therefore:

      Euclidean transformations are representable by versors in the conformal model.

Since versors have structure-preserving properties, all constructions that we make using
the geometric algebra of Rn+1,1 will transform nicely (i.e., covariantly) in that algebra—
which implies that they move properly with the Euclidean transformations. We never need
to enforce that; it is intrinsically true due to the versor structure. This kind of operational
model is very intuitive to use (for you can make a construction somewhere, and it will hold
anywhere). The conformal model is the smallest known algebra that can model Euclidean
transformations in this structure-preserving manner.

13.2.1 EUCLIDEAN VERSORS
Representing Euclidean transformations by versors is the plan, but when we put it into
action we have to be bit more precise. Not just any versor in the algebra of Rn+1,1 is a
Euclidean motion: it also needs to preserve the vector ∞, since that is an essential part
of the modeling interface between the inner product and its interpretation as Euclidean
distance in (13.2). Such a versor induces an operation in the Euclidean base space that
preserves the point at inﬁnity, which is indeed a property of Euclidean transformations.
S E C T I O N 13 . 2   EUCLIDEAN TRANSFORMATIONS AS VERSORS                                                       365




                       So in the conformal model, a Euclidean transformation is represented by a versor V that
                       preserves ∞. Using the versor product formula of (7.17), this gives

                                                               ∞ V −1 = ∞.
                                                              V

                                              ∞ = 0, so that ∞ V = 0 is the condition on a versor V to be a
                       It follows that ∞ V − V
                       Euclidean versor.
                       The simplest versor is a vector; and the most general vector that satisﬁes ∞ V = 0 is
                       π = n + δ∞. This represents a dual plane. All other Euclidean transformation versors
                       should be products of such vectors; in the base space, we would phrase that as

                          All Euclidean transformations can be made by multiple reﬂections in well-chosen
                          planes.

                       This well-known fact from Euclidean geometry is the key to designing the Euclidean trans-
                       formation versors in Rn+1,1 .

                       13.2.2 PROPER EUCLIDEAN MOTIONS AS EVEN VERSORS
                       We showed in Part I that an odd number of reﬂections will produce a transformation with
                       determinant −1 (Section 7.6.2). The resulting versor represents an improper motion: it
                       changes handedness, and therefore cannot be performed as a continuous motion. Proper,
                       continuous Euclidean motions preserve handedness and are represented by even versors,
                       which we can normalize to be rotors. There are two elementary proper motions: pure
                       translations and pure rotations. They can of course be composed to make general proper
                       motions. We construct their versors, and illustrate this in Figure 13.1.
                          •   Translations. As a special case of versor composition, we compute the product of
                              two reﬂecting parallel planes with the same direction but at a differing location, as
                              in Figure 13.1(a). Let n be their unit normal vector, then we compute

                                         (n + δ2 ∞) (n + δ1 ∞) = 1 − (δ2 − δ1 ) n ∞ ≡ 1 − t∞/2 ≡ Tt ,

                              where we deﬁne the Euclidean translation vector t ≡ 2(δ2 − δ1 )n. Geometrically,
                              we would expect this double reﬂection to represent a translation in the direction n,
                              over twice the distance of the reﬂecting planes (i.e., over t).
                              For a point at the (arbitrary) origin o, this behavior is easily checked:

                                               Tt o Tt−1 = (1 − t ∞/2) o (1 + t ∞/2)
                                                         = o − 12 (t ∞ o − o t ∞) − t ∞ o t ∞/4
                                                         = o − t (∞ · o) − ∞ (2o · ∞ − ∞ o) t2 /4
                                                         = o + t + 21 t2 ∞ ≡ t.

                              (Verify this computation carefully, as it contains techniques you will frequently use.)
                              This is the representative of the point t at location t relative to the origin o, so we
366                                            THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY    C H A P T E R 13




                                         π2
                                                                                         π2


          t/2
                                          π1                                              π1
                                                                      φ/2


                      (a)                                                   (b)


      F i g u r e 13.1: The versors for the Euclidean transformations can be constructed as multi-
      ple reﬂections in well-chosen planes. (a) Two parallel planes make a translation, and (b) two
      intersecting planes make a rotation.




          have indeed found the translation versor. This versor is even a rotor, for Tt Tt =
                                                             2   2
          (1 − t ∞/2) (1 + t ∞/2) = 1 − t ∞ t ∞/4 = 1 + t ∞ /4 = 1.
          Like all rotors in Rn+1,1 , the translation rotor has an exponential representation.
          This is easy to construct from the fact that ∞ squares to 0:

                    Tt = 1 − t ∞/2 = 1 + (−t∞/2) + 2!1 (−t∞/2)2 + · · · = e−t∞/2 .

          The Taylor expansion of the exponential truncates by itself, after the ﬁrst-order
          term. We foresaw such unusual rotors when discussing the exponential in Sec-
          tion 7.4.2.
      •   Rotations in the Origin. If we consider two planes in the origin as in Figure 13.1(b),
          these are dually represented as the purely Euclidean vectors π1 = n1 and π2 =
          n2 . Viewed as reﬂection versors, we may take these as unit vectors without loss of
          generality. Their product is the versor

                                                 π2 π1 = n2 n1 ,

          in which we recognize the purely Euclidean rotor R. Let us check what it does on a
          point, represented as a vector of Rn+1,1 :

                    R (o + p + 21 p2 ∞)R −1 = R o R −1 + R p R −1 + 21 p2 (R ∞ R −1 )
                                                = o + (R p R −1 ) + 12 p2 ∞
                                                = o + (R p R −1 ) + 12 (R pR −1 )2 ∞,

          which holds simply because the elements o and ∞ commute with the purely
          Euclidean elements. This is indeed the representation of the point at location
S E C T I O N 13 . 2   EUCLIDEAN TRANSFORMATIONS AS VERSORS                                                      367




                              R p R −1 , so successive reﬂections in planes through the origin are a rotation in a
                              plane through the origin. This was also the case in the vector space model when we
                              introduced its rotors in Chapter 7 (and therefore also in the homogeneous model).
                              This rotor representation of rotations is therefore nicely backwards compatible: it is
                              literally the same as in the vector space model contained in the space Rn+1,1 , and it
                              merely acts on the whole space now.
                              Since this rotor is completely Euclidean, the earlier results of Chapter 7 and the
                              vector space model in Chapter 10 apply, and we can write it as

                                                      R = e−I␾ /2 = cos(␾/2) − sin(␾/2) I

                              in terms of its rotation plane I and rotation angle ␾.
                          •   General Rigid Body Motions. A general rigid body motion can be constructed by
                              ﬁrst doing a rotation in the origin and following it by a translation. That gives a
                              rotor of the form
                                                                 (1 − t∞/2) R.
                              This generally contains terms of grades 0, 2, and 4. Being a rotor, the general rigid
                              body motion can also be written in exponential form, but this is a bit involved: it
                              requires viewing it as a screw motion (i.e., a rotation around a general axis combined
                              with a translation along that axis). We will get back to analyzing and interpreting
                              such motions in Section 13.5.2.

                       The above shows how the Euclidean proper motions are represented as rotors (i.e., as even
                       unit versors). Improper Euclidean motions can be represented by odd unit versors (just
                       multiply by a vector representing a dual reﬂection plane).
                       As a shorthand of the linear transformation produced by the application of Tt in a versor
                       product, we will use Tt [·] (note the sans serif font). For the linear transformation of the
                       rotor RI␾ , we may use the notation RI␾ [·] (though we may conveniently drop the reference
                       to the bivector angle).

                       13.2.3 COVARIANT PRESERVATION OF STRUCTURE
                       By representing Euclidean transformations as versors, we have achieved an important
                       algebraic milestone in computing with Euclidean spaces, with far-reaching geometric
                       consequences: automatic structure-preservation of all our constructions, in the sense of
                       Section 7.6.3. By this we mean that a construction made anywhere, in any orientation,
                       will automatically transform properly under a Euclidean motion.
                       As an example, we have just seen how we make a rotation by reﬂection in two planes
                       passing through a point o as the product R = π2 π1 . If we now would want to have a
                       similar rotation at a point p, we could deﬁne that new rotation by moving both planes to
                       p by a translation versor Tp and making the computation π1p π2p for the moved planes
368                                                 THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY                     C H A P T E R 13




π1p ≡ Tp π1 Tp−1 and π2p ≡ Tp π2 Tp−1 . But when we do this, we ﬁnd that this is the same as
applying the translation Tp to the original rotor R, for π1p π2p = Tp π1 Tp−1 Tp π2 Tp−1 =
Tp π1 π2 Tp−1 = Tp R Tp−1 . The rotor of the moved planes is the moved rotor of the planes!
This is of course what we want for our original construction to be geometrically meaning-
ful: it should transfer to another location in precisely this covariant manner (co-variant,
implying: varying with the change) under the transformations of Euclidean geometry. We
have effectively used similarity under Euclidean transformations as a generative principle
rather than as a property to check afterwards.
It should be clear from this example that it is precisely the versor representation that makes
this covariant structure preservation work so automatically, and that it should therefore
work for any Euclidean transformation (since they are all represented by versors in the
conformal model). We discuss the abstract principle involved in some detail, so that we
can apply it throughout the remainder of this chapter. The most important structure-
preservation properties of the versor product are easily proved.
      •   The versor product preserves the structure of a geometric product:
                                         V[X Y] = V[X] V[Y].
                4
          Proof: Use associativity: V (X Y) V −1 = V X Y V −1 = V X V −1 V Y V −1 =
          (V X V −1 ) (V Y V −1 ).
      •   The versor product is linear:
                                    V[α X + β Y] = α V[X] + β V[Y].
          Proof: V (α X + β Y) V −1 = α V X V −1 + β V Y V −1 .
      •   The versor product is grade-preserving:
                                           V[X] k = V[ X k ].
          Proof: Grades are deﬁned in terms of the number of factors in an outer product.
          An outer product can be written as a sum of geometric products, and under trans-
          formation each of its terms transforms in a structure-preserving manner. The fac-
          torization of the transform is the transform of the factorization, and therefore the
          number of (transformed) vector factors in the outer product is preserved.
In Part I, we saw that we construct all objects and operators in geometric algebra using
only these constructive elements (either as linear combinations of geometric products or
by grade selection). Therefore the versors preserve all constructions, even including meet
and join, inverses, and duality. So the universal structure preservation of constructions
can be denoted compactly as
                                 V (A ◦ B) V −1 = (V A V −1 ) ◦ (V B V −1 ),
where ◦ may be substituted by any of the products ∧, , , ∗, ∩, ∪.


4     For structural clarity, we suppressed the signs in (7.18), which really should be there. You can easily verify that
      the result still holds when these are included.
S E C T I O N 13 . 2   EUCLIDEAN TRANSFORMATIONS AS VERSORS                                                       369




                       This leads to the operational model principle, of which the conformal model is merely
                       one manifestation:

                          If we have managed to construct a geometric algebra in which useful transformations
                          (motions) in the base space are represented as versors, then all constructions in the
                          model transform covariantly (i.e., with preservation of their structure).

                       We implicitly used this principle for rotations in the vector space model, which is why that
                       is the operational model for directions in space. The homogeneous model augmented it
                       with translations as linear transformations, but not as versors, which is why it had some
                       problems preserving the structure of constructions (notably the metric properties). In
                       the conformal model we ﬁnally have the Euclidean transformations as versors, so all con-
                       structions should be covariant under Euclidean transformations. It is the smallest known
                       model that can do this. Operational models for other important geometries (such as pro-
                       jective geometry) have yet to be developed.

                       13.2.4 THE INVARIANCE OF PROPERTIES
                       Structure preservation is useful in analyzing and constructing all elements in the conformal
                       model: it saves work. Since we have the Euclidean transformations available, we need to
                       focus only on standardized elements at the origin (which is arbitrary anyway) to determine
                       their form and deﬁning equations. We can always move them to their desired location and
                       orientation later. But are we guaranteed that their deﬁning properties are preserved under
                       such a transformation? For instance, could a point become a dual sphere or a dual plane?
                       They are all represented as vectors, and could these not change into each other?
                       This brings us to how the characteristic properties change, that determine the interpre-
                       tation of a representative element. For vectors, these properties were given in Table 13.2.
                       They express that some combination of products is equal to a scalar. That algebraic form
                       already guarantees that they are structurally preserved. To take an example, we have seen
                       above how a unit point t at location t can be made by translation of a unit point at the
                       origin: t = Tt o T −1
                                          t . But how do we know that it is still a unit point and not a dual sphere
                       or dual plane? Of the original point o, we knew that o2 = 0 and −∞ · o = 1. Since these
                       conditions are completely expressed in terms of the products of geometric algebra, they
                       transform covariantly under the Euclidean transformation of translation, so we can relate
                       the properties of t to those of o:

                                          t t = Tt o T −1       −1           −1         −1
                                                       t Tt o T t = Tt o o T t = Tt 0 T t = 0,

                       so indeed, t is also a point. Moreover,

                            −∞ · t = −∞ · (Tt o T −1             −1            −1                  −1
                                                  t ) = −(Tt ∞ T t ) · (Tt o T t ) = −Tt (∞ · o) T t = 1,

                       so t also has unit weight. Note that in the derivation of weight preservation, it is essential
                       that ∞ is an invariant of the translation: it does not change, so the normalization equation
                       preserves its form after transformation.
370                                       THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY   C H A P T E R 13




      Characteristic properties expressed as scalar conditions in terms of the products and ∞
      are automatically invariants of the Euclidean transformations.

In summary, as long as we construct elements and their deﬁning properties in terms
of the products of the geometric algebra of the operational model Rn+1,1 , we are
automatically guaranteed of their covariance (for the elements) and invariance (for
their properties) under Euclidean transformations. So we can construct everything
around the origin, and yet get a full inventory of the general possibilities. With that
labor-saving capability, we are ready to construct and interpret general blades of Rn+1,1
effectively.



13.3 FLATS AND DIRECTIONS
Let us embed the geometrical elements of the homogeneous model into the conformal
model, and investigate how the versor properties empower our geometric representation.
We originally started our exploration of the conformal model in Section 13.1.3 by
interpreting vectors, which turned out to be the dual representations of spheres (real,
imaginary, or zero radius), hyperplanes, and the point at inﬁnity. To establish the
correspondence with the vector space model and the homogeneous model, we now
prefer instead to construct the direct representations of elements. The two repre-
sentations are of course related by duality, so none is more fundamental than the
other, but it is more natural to assign orientations to ﬂats (and spheres) in the direct
representation—and then dualization automatically introduces some grade-dependent
orientation signs in their corresponding duals, which are good to get straight once and
for all.
Constructing direct representations implies that we use the outer product ∧, both for con-
structing the elements (as blades A) and for testing what Euclidean point set it represents
(by solving x ∧ A = 0).


13.3.1 THE DIRECT REPRESENTATION OF FLATS
We start constructing an element of the form

                                X = α (p0 ∧ p1 ∧ · · · ∧ pk ∧ ∞),

by which we mean the weighted outer product of k+1 unit points and the point at inﬁnity
∞. This clearly contains the point at inﬁnity (since ∞ ∧ X = 0), and we will ﬁnd out that
such a blade is the direct representation of a k-ﬂat in the conformal model (i.e., an offset
k-dimensional linear subspace of En ). We do so by rewriting the blade to a form that we
mostly recognize from the homogeneous model. This is done in three steps: standardiza-
tion, interpretation, and generalization.
S E C T I O N 13 . 3   FLATS AND DIRECTIONS                                                                     371




                       Standardization
                       By the structure preservation principle, we still have the general form if we take p0 to be
                       the arbitrary origin o (and we can view this either as moving the whole blade X back to
                       the origin to make p0 coincide with o, or as choosing p0 as the origin of our representa-
                       tion). Note that the invariance of ∞ is essential (if it changed under translation, the form
                       of the expression would not be the same at the origin). So we have reduced the element
                       X to
                                                     X = α (o ∧ p1 ∧ · · · ∧ pk ∧ ∞).
                       Now because the outer product is antisymmetric, we can subtract one of the factors from
                       each of the others without changing the value of the product (the extra terms would pro-
                       duce zero, a∧b = a∧ (b−a) being the prime example). We subtract o, and get the element
                       X into the form:
                                                                                      
                                              X = α o ∧ (p1 − o) ∧ · · · ∧ (pk − o) ∧ ∞ .
                       We substitute the general form of the point representation of (13.3), setting pi = o + pi +
                       1 2
                       2 pi ∞, to obtain:
                                                                                               
                                         X = α o ∧ (p1 + 12 p21 ∞) ∧ · · · ∧ (pk + 12 p2k ∞) ∧ ∞ .

                       The outer product with ∞ eliminates the extra terms 12 p2i ∞. So we have:

                                                     X = α (o ∧ p1 ∧ · · · ∧ pk ∧ ∞).

                       We can now reduce the part involving the vectors pi to a purely Euclidean k-blade Ak , into
                       which we also absorb the weight α, deﬁning Ak = α p1 ∧ · · · ∧ pk . We therefore ultimately
                       ﬁnd that this class of blade is equivalent to:

                                                            X = o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞,

                       a much simpliﬁed form.

                       Interpretation
                       To ﬁnd the Euclidean interpretation of X = o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞ as a direct blade, we probe it with
                       a point x and solve x ∧ (o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞) = 0; that should give the set of Euclidean points it
                       represents. Let us bring this into a more familiar form by expanding x as o + x + 12 x2 ∞.
                       We immediately realize that the outer products with o and ∞ eliminate the ﬁrst and last
                       term of this point representation, so we effectively can substitute x = x without changing
                       the solution:
                                                 0 = x ∧ o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞ = x ∧ o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞.
                       Therefore we need to solve x ∧ o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞ = 0. This equation contains a purely Euclidean
                       part (x ∧ Ak ) and a non-Euclidean part (o ∧ ∞). These are orthogonal, so that their outer
372                                     THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY       C H A P T E R 13




product is a geometric product, and we have (o ∧ ∞) (x ∧ Ak ) = 0 (absorbing a sign into
the zero). The model bivector o ∧ ∞ is not zero, so we must have x ∧ Ak = 0 (if you do not
trust this reasoning, take the contraction of the original equation with o ∧ ∞ to eliminate
the non-Euclidean part, and use (o ∧ ∞) (o ∧ ∞) = (∞ · o)2 = 1). But the result

                                         x ∧ Ak = 0

is a simple equation from the vector space model. It involves purely Euclidean vectors and
implies that x is in the blade spanned by Ak . Therefore the blade X = o∧Ak ∧∞ represents
a ﬂat k-dimensional subspace through the origin o.

Generalization
We have found that ﬂats through the origin are part of the conformal model, and since the
Euclidean transformations are structure-preserving, all their translations and rotations
should be in the model as well.
To ﬁnd the general form of a k-dimensional ﬂat through a point p, we need to translate
o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞ using the versor Tp . Since this is a versor, we can distribute it over the terms o,
Ak , and ∞. The ﬁrst and the last are easy: Tp applied to o is p, and ∞ is invariant, so the
translation of X is p ∧ Tp [Ak ] ∧ ∞. The translation of the Euclidean k-blade Ak requires
some care:

                     Tp [Ak ] = (1 − p∞/2) Ak (1 + p∞/2)
                             = Ak − 12 (p∞Ak − Ak p∞) − p∞Ak p∞/4
                                                k p) + 0
                             = Ak + 12 ∞ (pAk − A
                             = Ak + ∞(p Ak ) = −p (∞Ak ).                               (13.7)

where p = Tp [o]. The ﬁnal form is a multiplicative rewriting convenient for later compu-
tations. For our present purpose, the penultimate form is more convenient. Substituting
it in p ∧ Tt [Ak ] ∧ ∞, we ﬁnd that its ∞-component is killed by the outer product with ∞,
so that the general form of a ﬂat k-dimensional offset subspace passing through p is

                           direct Ak -ﬂat through p: p ∧ Ak ∧ ∞.                        (13.8)

Elements of this kind are depicted in Figure 13.2.
We see that a directly represented ﬂat X in the conformal model always contains the point
at inﬁnity, so it satisﬁes ∞ ∧ X = 0. In the origin, you can easily verify that X2 =
XX = −Ak 2 = 0, and since that is an invariant property, this holds anywhere. These
two conditions characterize the blades representing a direct ﬂat.

13.3.2 CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE HOMOGENEOUS MODEL
This expression p ∧ Ak ∧ ∞ for a general direct ﬂat in the conformal model is nicely
backwards compatible with the homogeneous model. We can see this most clearly by
S E C T I O N 13 . 3   FLATS AND DIRECTIONS                                                                                 373




                                                  s∧t∧⬁

                                                      s
                                                                       p
                                                             t                           r
                                                                      q
                                                                                             p∧ q∧ r ∧ ⬁
                                                                        u∧ ⬁




                          F i g u r e 13.2: Flat elements in the conformal model: the plane p∧q∧r∧∞ (with its orientation
                          denoted by the circle), the line s ∧ t ∧ ∞, and the ﬂat point u ∧ ∞ at their intersection.




                       trying to determine its meaning directly (without using the versor properties to bring
                       things to the origin, as we did above). So we need to solve 0 = x ∧ (p ∧ Ak ∧ ∞); it
                       simpliﬁes by the following steps:

                                              0 = x ∧ (p ∧ Ak ∧ ∞)
                                               = (o + x + 12 x2 ∞) ∧ (o + p + 12 p2 ∞) ∧ Ak ∧ ∞
                                               = (o + x) ∧ (o + p) ∧ Ak ∧ ∞
                                                                    
                                               = o ∧ (p − x) + x ∧ p ∧ Ak ∧ ∞
                                               = o ∧ (p − x) ∧ Ak ∧ ∞ + x ∧ (p − x) ∧ Ak ∧ ∞.

                       The linear independence of the two terms implies that they should each be zero to make
                       the total zero. The orthogonality of o ∧ ∞ to the Euclidean parts makes setting the ﬁrst
                       term equal to zero equivalent to solving the single equation (p − x) ∧ Ak = 0. The second
                       term is then also zero, so this is the general solution. We indeed have an offset ﬂat with
                       direction element Ak passing through the point at p.
                       After the ﬁrst two steps, this derivation is completely analogous to the computation in the
                       homogeneous model:

                                                   0 = (e0 + x) ∧ (e0 + p) ∧ Ak
                                                                            
                                                     = e0 ∧ (p − x) + x ∧ p ∧ Ak
                                                                                
                                                     = e0 ∧ (p − x) + x ∧ (p − x) ∧ Ak .

                       The metric properties of o or e0 (which are very different: o2 = 0 while e20 = ±1) do not
                       enter the solution process, they only serve as bookkeeping devices for the outer product.
374                                      THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY         C H A P T E R 13




This equivalence of the derivations worked because the outer product with ∞ removed the
terms involving the squared vectors from the point representation. We have demonstrated
an important relationship between the two models:

      The homogeneous model is embedded in the conformal model as governing the behav-
      ior of the blades involving a factor ∞. These represent offset ﬂat subspaces.

Pushing this equivalence, a homogeneous point p is found in the conformal model as the
element p ∧ ∞, which must be a ﬂat point. It contains both the conformal point represen-
tative p and the point at inﬁnity ∞. Such ﬂat points occur as the result of the intersection
of a line and a plane, which actually contains two common points: the ﬁnite intersection
point and the point at inﬁnity. An example is the point u ∧ ∞ in Figure 13.2. In contain-
ing this inﬁnite aspect, they are subtly different from the point p itself, which is a dual
sphere with zero radius, as we saw in Section 13.1.3. Separating these algebraically is nat-
ural in the conformal model and cleans up computational aspects. But we readily admit
that these two conceptions of what still looks like a point in the Euclidean space En do
take some getting used to.
Anyway, if you want the line through the points p and q, this is the 2-blade pH ∧ qH in the
homogeneous model (where pH and qH are the homogeneous representatives), and the
3-blade Λ = p ∧ q ∧ ∞ in the conformal model. It can be re-expressed as p ∧ (q − p) ∧ ∞ =
p∧(q−p)∧∞ ≡ p∧a∧∞, so the line passing through p with direction vector a is p∧a∧∞,
just as it would have been pH ∧ a in the homogeneous model. Our ﬂexible computational
rerepresentation techniques from the homogeneous model therefore still apply without
essential change. In the conformal model, too, lines and planes can be represented by a
mixture of locations and/or directions, with the outer product as universal construction
operation.

13.3.3 DUAL REPRESENTATION OF FLATS
The dual representation of ﬂats is simply found by dualization. As a pseudoscalar for the
representational space Rn+1,1 we use the blade representing the full Euclidean space as a
ﬂat, so
                   pseudoscalar of conformal model: In+1,1 ≡ o ∧ In ∧ ∞,
where In is the Euclidean unit pseudoscalar. As in the homogeneous model, we will denote
the dualization in the full representational space by a six-pointed star (as X∗ ) and the
dualization in its Euclidean part by a ﬁve-pointed star (as X夹 , typically done on a purely
Euclidean element).
Dualization in geometric algebra involves the inverse of the unit pseudoscalar. In the
strange metric of the representational space Rn+1,1 , this is not equal to the reverse of In+1,1 .
The reason boils down to a property of the 2-blade o ∧ ∞. For we have

             (o ∧ ∞) (o ∧ ∞) = (o ∞ + 1) (o ∞ + 1) = o ∞ o ∞ + 2 o ∞ + 1 = 1
S E C T I O N 13 . 3   FLATS AND DIRECTIONS                                                                       375




                       so that the o ∧ ∞ is its own inverse. (The ﬁnal step involves a computation highlighted in
                       structural exercise 2.) The inverse of the pseudoscalar is then easily veriﬁed to be
                                                           −1            −1
                                                          In+1 ,1 = o ∧ In ∧ ∞,

                       so this is what we should use for dualization. It is satisfactory that the embedding of the
                       Euclidean model is such that the inverse of the representation of the Euclidean pseudoscalar
                       is the representation of the inverse. This is of course related to the general structure pre-
                       serving properties of the conformal model. We did not have this property in the homo-
                       geneous model, where (e0 In ) −1 = In−1 e0−1 = (−1)n e0−1 In−1 , involving an extra sign in
                       odd dimensions. Because we have two extra representational dimensions in the conformal
                       model (rather than just one), we can avoid those extraneous signs.
                       The structure-preserving property of the duality implies that we can make the dual of the
                       standard ﬂat through the origin and then translate it to the location of the desired ﬂat to
                       obtain its dual. This is permitted, for the structure preservation

                                                              V[X]∗ = V[X∗ ]

                       holds for any even versor, especially for Euclidean motions. In the conformal model, we
                       do not need to know whether an element is a direct or a dual representation to move
                       it in a Euclidean manner by an even versor. This is an improvement over the homoge-
                       neous model. (However, in structural exercise 4, we ask you to show that there is an addi-
                       tional minus sign for an odd versor. So there is a small difference between reﬂections and
                       motions.)
                       Dualizing the origin blade o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞, we ﬁnd

                                              (o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞)∗ = (o ∧ Ak ∧ ∞) (o ∧ In−1 ∧ ∞)
                                                             = −(o ∧ Ak ) (In−1 ∧ ∞)
                                                             = −o (A夹
                                                                    k
                                                                      ∧ ∞)
                                                              夹 .
                                                             =A k

                       Note that the grade inversion extends over the Euclidean dual, so it gives a sign of (−1)n−k .
                       The dual of a blade in the homogeneous model involved a similar sign change, so we are
                       still backwards compatible in the dualization.
                       But in contrast to the homogeneous model (see Section 11.8.2), translations on dual
                       blades are performed by the same operation as translations on direct blades: simply apply
                       the translation versor. We have already computed the translation of a purely Euclidean
                       element in (13.7), so the result is immediate:

                                                               夹 + ∞(p A
                                                        夹 ] = A
                                          dual ﬂat: Tp [A               夹 ) = −p (A夹 ∞).                     (13.9)
                                                          k      k       k          k
376                                    THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY      C H A P T E R 13




This makes it particularly easy to construct, say, the dual representation of a hyperplane
with 2-blade I and associated normal n = I∗ , passing through p: it is Π∗ = −p (n ∞) =
−n − (p · n) ∞. This conﬁrms our earlier result of Table 13.2, though the sign is now
properly related to a properly oriented plane Π and a well-deﬁned pseudoscalar in the
dualization process.
Direct representations of ﬂats contain a factor ∞ and are therefore characterized by ∞ ∧
X = 0. Dualization of this condition yields that a blade X∗ representing a dual ﬂat is
characterized by ∞ X∗ = 0. This is of course interpreted to mean that the point at inﬁnity
is contained in the element dually represented by X. The condition itself is invariant under
Euclidean transformations, because ∞ is. The other property of a direct ﬂat, X2 < 0,
dualizes to X∗ 2 > 0 for the dual representation.

13.3.4 DIRECTIONS
In the construction of the direct ﬂat p ∧ Ak ∧ ∞, we recognize the location p and the blade
Ak ∧ ∞. Bearing in mind how the conformal ﬂats correspond to their representations in
the homogeneous model, such an element Ak ∧ ∞ must be the conformal representation
of a k-dimensional direction:

                          directly represented direction: Ak ∧ ∞.

To be a pure direction, it should only have directional properties and no locational aspects.
It is easy to verify how it transforms under a general Euclidean motion consisting of a
rotation R and a translation T:
                                                       
               Tt [R[Ak ∧ ∞]] = R[Ak ] − (t R[Ak ]) ∞ ∧ ∞ = R[Ak ] ∧ ∞.


So these elements of the form Ak ∧ ∞ are rotation covariant, but translation invariant.
That is precisely what you would expect from directions. The dual directions are simply
their duals:

          dual direction: (Ak ∧ ∞)∗ = (Ak ∧ ∞) (o ∧ In−1 ∧ ∞) = −A夹
                                                                  k
                                                                    ∧ ∞,

again involving signs that should be observed if you want to use them in consistently
oriented computations. They are clearly also translation invariant.
You can make a ﬂat by attaching a direction element to a point p using an outer product,
as in p ∧ (Ak ∧ ∞). The corresponding dual ﬂat is made by attaching the dual direction to
the point p using the contraction, giving p (−A夹k
                                                  ∞) in agreement with (13.9).
A direction element X is characterized by containing ∞, so that ∞ ∧ X = 0, and moreover
by having a zero norm: X2 = 0, as you can easily verify. A dual direction X∗ has ∞ X∗ =
0 and X∗ 2 = 0.
S E C T I O N 13 . 4   APPLICATION: GENERAL PLANAR REFLECTION                                                                   377




                       13.4 APPLICATION: GENERAL PLANAR REFLECTION
                       In classical texts on subjects like computer graphics, many crucial formulas are given in
                       a Euclidean or homogeneous-coordinate form. How are we to integrate those into the
                       new conformal model? This is often surprisingly straightforward, since the more familiar
                       vector space model and the homogeneous model are both naturally contained in the con-
                       formal model. All that is required is recasting of standard formulas into a geometric alge-
                       bra format before you perform the embedding. You then ﬁnd that the conformal model
                       gives you the freedom to generalize the formulas, in a manner that the other models did
                       not allow. The reason, as always, is the versor form of the Euclidean transformations and
                       its associated structure-preserving properties.
                       As an application, let us consider the reﬂection of a general line Λ in a general plane π.
                       See Figure 13.3.

                          •   Classical Linear Algebra. In the classical way of doing this, you would have to treat
                              positions and orientations separately. The intersection point q of Λ and π deter-
                              mines a point on the outgoing line. For its direction vector, you would reﬂect the
                              direction u of Λ relative to the normal vector n of the plane. This would refer to a
                              Euclidean formula such as




                                                                                                 ∧
                                                                                              π Λ/ π



                                                   Λ                                n   u'


                                                                                        u

                                                                                   π




                          F i g u r e 13.3: Reﬂection of a line Λ in a (dual) plane π in the conformal model. This is derived
                          from the reﬂection of a vector u in a normal vector n in the origin, according to the vector space
                          model (also depicted).
378                                       THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY     C H A P T E R 13




                                      u → u = u − 2(u · n)n.

          You would then reassemble the position q and the transformed direction u and
          return that as the transformed line, in some data format.
      •   Vector Space Model. In the vector space model of geometric algebra, we can start
          from the same formula, since all quantities belong to it. We have seen in Section 7.1
          how this can be reformulated to geometric algebra by introducing the geometric
          product, giving
                                       u → − n u n = −n u/n                           (13.10)
          (we introduced the division to waive normalization of n.) This is clearly a versor
          product, and the embedding in the geometric algebra of the vector space model gives
          us the automatic extension to the reﬂection of any blade in the Euclidean model, not
          just a direction vector u.
      •   Homogeneous Model. In the homogeneous model we can combine the directional
          and locational aspects of the line in one data structure, a 2-blade. We can use that
          blade to compute the intersection point, but we still need to isolate the direction
          vector to perform the reﬂection (by the same formula as the vector space model).
          We can then compose the resulting line from the intersection point and the new
          reﬂected direction as a resulting 2-blade in the homogeneous model.
      •   Conformal Model. In the conformal model, we can completely skip determining the
          intersection point. Instead, we extend the reﬂection formula (13.10) from the vector
          space model directly from merely working on directions to acting on the whole line,
          in the following manner.
          We ﬁrst note that the formula also holds in the conformal model, since the vector
          space model is contained in it. The direction vector n is now recognized as a dual
          plane through the origin, and this is the plane Π of the original problem, as long
          as we accept for the moment that it passes through the origin. We write this special
          plane as Πo , dually represented by πo = n. We want the vector u to represent the
          direction of the line Λo also passing through the origin. This implies that the line
          should be represented as Λo = o ∧ u ∧ ∞.
          Let us now extend the reﬂection formula of (13.10) to this element Λo . This is
          straightforward, since o and ∞ are invariants of the reﬂection in πo , and the ver-
          sor structure of the conformal model does the rest.

                        o ∧ (−n u/n) ∧ ∞ = (−n o/n) ∧ (−n u/n) ∧ (−n ∞/n)
                                           = n (o ∧ u ∧ ∞)/ n.

          (We wrote the formula using the grade involution , since there are obviously as
          many signs as the grade of Λo and this will help the further generalization below.)
          So we now have a formula that reﬂects a line Λo through the origin in a dual plane
          πo through the origin:
                                                     o /πo
                                           Λo → πo Λ
S E C T I O N 13 . 5   RIGID BODY MOTIONS                                                                         379




                             Since this formula consists only of geometric products, it is clearly translation
                             covariant. So moving both to a general position using the Euclidean rigid body
                             motion V (ﬁrst a rotation then a translation), we get a formula for a general line
                             Λ = V[Λo ] and a general dual plane π = V[πo ]
                                                            o /πo ] = V[πo ] V[Λ
                                        Λ = V[Λo ] → V[πo Λ                                       /π.
                                                                                 o ] /V[πo ] = π Λ

                             Under this motion, the original intersection point o moves to V[o], but the ﬁnal
                             result holds whether we know the intersection point explicitly or not. So the reﬂec-
                             tion of a line Λ in a dual plane π in general is
                                                                         /π,
                                                                 Λ → π Λ

                             in all its aspects of location and direction. It can do this without actually computing
                             the intersection point, and that is an improvement over both the vector space model
                             and the homogeneous model. (If you really want to compute the intersection point,
                             the meet of the plane Π and the line Λ is the ﬂat point Λ ∩ Π = π Λ.)
                       The result is clearly only the special case for a line of the general reﬂection formula that
                       reﬂects any directly represented ﬂat space in an arbitrary plane:
                                                                     /π.
                                                              X → πX                                        (13.11)

                       You see how much work the nice algebraic structure saves to transfer formulas, as well as
                       providing clear insights in why they hold, and how to extend them. Classical geometrical
                       results, typically formulated in the vector space model, are naturally embeddable within
                       the conformal model. Moreover, we don’t have to spell them all out: with a bit of practice
                       and conﬁdence, such transfers become one-liners. In the example above, you know that
                       o is never special, so that (13.11) is the only actual computation to get to the general case.
                       You may even learn to guess the result (which was clearly possible in the example above
                       based on the pattern in reﬂection formulas in Table 7.1), and merely verify the correctness
                       with interactive software (moving its constituents around to check its structure preserva-
                       tion, and the correctness of weights). That is how we ourselves typically design formulas
                       for speciﬁc tasks, and the method is justiﬁed by virtue of the structure preservation prop-
                       erties of the conformal model.
                       Incidentally, (13.11) is the reﬂection formula used in the motivating example of
                       Section 1.1.


                       13.5 RIGID BODY MOTIONS
                       We have seen in Section 13.2 how the conformal model represents the Euclidean transfor-
                       mations as versors. Of special interest are the Euclidean rigid body motions, represented
                       by even versors that can be normalized to rotors. We explore their structure, culminating
                       in a closed-form logarithm useful for interpolation of rigid body motions.
380                                     THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY       C H A P T E R 13




13.5.1 ALGEBRAIC PROPERTIES OF TRANSLATIONS
       AND ROTATIONS
The rotor Tt = exp(−t∞/2) = (1 − t∞/2) has all the desirable properties of a translation
versor. The occurrence of the null vector ∞ makes translation versors combine in an addi-
tive manner in terms of its vector parameter t, since it kills any terms that might contain
the combination of translations:

Ts Tt = (1 − s∞/2) (1 − t∞/2) = 1 − s∞/2 − t∞/2 + s∞t∞/4 = 1 − (s + t)∞/2 = Ts+t .

You may contrast this with the much more complicated composition of rotations, which
we saw in Section 7.3. That was essentially the geometric algebra version of the quaternion
product (in 3-D), extended to n-D. It, too, is automatic from the rotor representation
of the rotation, but the result was in essence an addition of arcs on the rotation sphere,
involving severe trigonometry in a coordinate representation.
The algebraic nature of the bivector in the exponent of these rotors is the crucial difference
that makes us experience them so differently geometrically: when it has a negative square,
it generates rotations, which do not commute and involve trigonometry, and when it has
a zero square, it generates translations, which do commute and remain additive. We will
meet the remaining possibility of a positive square later (in Section 16.3, where we show
that they are scalings and involve hyperbolic functions).
The versor structure of the conformal model means that not only elements like ﬂats and
directions transform easily, but so do the versors themselves. A consequence of the prop-
erties of translations is that translations are translation invariant: a translated translation
rotor acts in the same manner as the original rotor, for

                      Ts [Tt ] = Ts Tt T −1
                                         s = Ts Tt T−s = Ts+t−s = Tt .

(Note that T denotes the translation rotor, whereas T[ ] denotes the translation operator!)
This invariance property is why we feel so free to draw the translation vector anywhere,
attached to any point we like in the same manner. By contrast, rotations are not rotation
invariant:
                                    RJψ [RI␾ ] = RRJψ [I␾] ,

and therefore the total rotation rotates in the RJψ -rotated plane I, not in the original plane
I. (Again, R denotes the rotation rotor, while R[ ] denotes the rotation operator.)
When we translate a rotation rotor RI␾ = exp(−Iπ/2), by a translation rotor Tt , this has
the same effect as shifting the rotation 2-blade by the translation Tt :

                                     Tt [RI␾ ] = RTt [I␾] .

In 3-D space, this is particularly striking. The rotation 2-blade is the inverse dual of the
rotation axis Λo also passing through the origin, since Λo = I∗ . Originally, the axis
S E C T I O N 13 . 5   RIGID BODY MOTIONS                                                                           381




                       passes through the origin; after the translation the new axis Λ has become Tt [Λo ]. But the
                       property that the rotation rotor is the exponent of the dual line is covariant, so the new
                       rotation rotor is simply the exponent of the new dual axis Λ:
                                                                                         −∗          ∗
                                   3-D rotation around line Λ over angle ␾: R = e−Λ ␾/2 = eΛ ␾ /2 .

                       (Make sure you normalize the axis Λ so that the angle ␾ has the intended meaning.)
                       In Chapter 7, we showed that the 3-D rotation rotors around the origin were the geo-
                       metric algebra way of doing quaternions, in what we now recognize was the vector space
                       model. That had the advantage of embedding quaternions in a real computational frame-
                       work, but did not add any computational power. In the conformal model, the concept of
                       a quaternion is greatly extended. In 3-D, the extension encompasses the general rotation
                       axis for an arbitrary rotation to encode the rotation. (In n-D, it still signiﬁes the 2-blade of
                       the rotational bivector, though this does then not dualize to a single axis.) This relation-
                       ship to the rotation axis is very compact and convenient in applications. You have met it
                       ﬁrst in our motivating example in Section 1.1.


                       13.5.2 SCREW MOTIONS
                       A translated rotation is not yet the general rigid body motion, for it lacks a translation
                       component along the rotation axis. So we would have to supply that separately, to obtain
                       the general rigid body motion as

                                                                Tw Tv [RI␾ ],

                       where v is a vector in the plane I (so that v ∧ I = 0), and w is vector perpendicular to it
                       (so that w I = 0).
                       Such a decomposition of a rigid body motion gives us a better understanding of what it
                       does, and we can execute the two parts (translation along the axis and rotation around
                       the axis) in any order or simultaneously. When we do them in similar amounts to reach
                       a total resulting rigid body motion, we obtain a screw motion, as depicted in Figure 13.4.
                       The simultaneous rotation and translation (around and along the spatial axis) are then
                       related through the pitch of the screw. According to Chasles’ theorem, an arbitrary rigid
                       body motion can be represented in this manner. Given a general rigid body motion, we
                       can compute the location and magnitude of the elements of the screw using the confor-
                       mal model. Perhaps surprisingly, it completely avoids the rather involved trigonometry.
                       First, assume that we have a general rigid body motion Tt RI␾ composed of a standard
                       rotation in a plane I at the origin, followed by a translation. This is the usual way to decom-
                       pose rigid body motions, which we already encountered in the homogeneous model (in
                       Section 11.8.5). It corresponds well to the homogeneous coordinate matrices for rigid
                       body motions. Following Chasles, we attempt to rewrite this rigid body motion as a
                       displaced rotation around a displaced axis parallel to I∗ , with its location characterized by
382                                           THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY        C H A P T E R 13




                                                v              t
                                                               w




      F i g u r e 13.4: The computation of the screw corresponding to a rotor R followed by a trans-
      lation over t. The rotor plane and angle are indicated by the blue disk. The translation w along
      the screw axis is the rejection of t by the rotation plane. The location vector v of the axis is
      found as the unique vector in the rotation plane whose chord under rotation is parallel to w − t
      (indicated by a thin blue line). The resulting screw motion around the axis (in black) is shown
      applied to a tangent bivector (in fading shades of green).




a vector v (which we can take to be in the I-plane without loss of generality), followed by
a translation w in the direction of that axis. We saw this form of the motion above, and
therefore ﬁnd that we need to solve

                                          Tt RI␾ = Tw Tv [RI␾ ]

for v and w, where v ∧ I = 0 and w I = 0. The two factors on the right-hand side should
commute, since we can do the translation along the displaced axis before or after a rotation
around it. Actually, that demand on commutation is an equivalent, more algebraic way
of phrasing the problem, from which the conditions on v and w relative to I follow.
The Euclidean blade I characterizing the direction of the rotation plane can be computed
as the normalization of R 2 . Since the only translation perpendicular to I is performed
by w, we must have that w is the rejection of the translation vector t by I:

                                              w = (t ∧ I)/I.
S E C T I O N 13 . 5   RIGID BODY MOTIONS                                                                        383




                       That leaves the other part of the translation (t I)/I. Call it u for the moment. The problem
                       is now reduced to a 2-D problem in the I-plane, namely that of solving for v in

                                                             Tu RI␾ = Tv RI␾ T−v .

                       We would like to swap the rightmost translation with RI␾ . We derive the following swap-
                       ping rule (abbreviating RI␾ to R for convenience):

                          R T−v = R (1 + v∞/2) = (1 + Rv∞R /2) R = (1 + RvR ∞/2) R = T−RvR R.             (13.12)

                       We also observe that since v is a vector in the R-plane, we have

                                 v R = v ( R 0 + R 2 ) = ( R 0 − R 2 ) v = ( R 0 + R 2 ) v = R v.

                       Therefore,

                                    Tu R = Tv RT v = Tv T−RvR R = Tv−RvR R = Tv−R2 v R = T(1−R2 )v R.

                       It follows that
                                                    v = (1 − R2 ) −1 u = (1 − R2 ) −1 (t I)/I.               (13.13)
                       Graphically, the vector v − RvR = 2(v R)/R occurring in this computation is the chord
                       connecting the rotated v to the original v. We should ﬁnd v such that this equals u, which
                       gives the construction in Figure 13.4 as the geometric interpretation of this algebraic com-
                       putation. To pull it all together, the ﬁnal result giving the screw parameters is:

                                         screw decomposition: Tt RI␾ = T(t∧I)/I T(1−R2 ) −1 (t I)/I [RI␾ ]
                                                                                         I␾


                       Realize again that T denotes a translation rotor, whereas T[ ] denotes a translation
                       operator!

                       13.5.3 LOGARITHM OF A RIGID BODY MOTION
                       Using Chasles’ theorem, we can determine the logarithm of a rigid body motion rotor V,
                       which means that we can determine the bivector when we have been given the rotor. For
                       such a rotor is, on the one hand,

                                              V = Tt RI␾ = (1 − t ∞/2) RI␾ = RI␾ − 12 t RI␾ ∞,               (13.14)

                       and on the other hand,

                                           V = Tw RTv [I␾] = e−w∞/2 e−Tv [I␾]/2 = e−w∞/2−Tv [I␾]/2 ,

                       in which the addition of the exponents is only permitted because the rotors commute.
                       They were designed that way by Chasles’ theorem, and it is the algebraic consequence of
384                                         THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY         C H A P T E R 13




the possibility to execute the screw as one smooth motion. Substituting the values of w
and v we found above, the requested rigid body motion logarithm is

                log(Tt RI␾ ) = −((t ∧ I)/I) ∞/2 + T(1−R2 ) −1 (t I)/I [−I␾/2]
                              = −((t ∧ I)/I) ∞/2 + (1 − R2 ) −1 (t I␾) ∞/2 − I␾/2             (13.15)

The value of this expression can be determined via the computation of the screw param-
eters, provided that we can retrieve both RI␾ (which gives I␾ by the logarithm of (10.14))
and t from the overall rotor V. But this retrieval is simple in (13.14):

                              RI␾ = −o (V ∞), t = −2 (o V )/RI␾ .

Putting all formulas together, we get the pseudocode of Figure 13.5. Special cases happen
when R equals +1 or −1. When R equals +1, the motion is a pure translation versor and
we just return the logarithm of that (which is −t ∞ / 2).When R equals −1, there is no
unambigious logarithm, since a rotation of π within any plane could generate the −1.
To prevent spurious terms in the product with the translation versor, one must choose a
plane perpendicular to t. In 2-D, this is impossible, and the logarithm does not exist (as
we intimated in Section 7.4.4). Having the logarithm of a rigid body motion is a pow-
erful result. It permits us to interpolate these motions in a total analogy to the rotation




      log(V){
            R = −o (V∞)
            t = −2 (o V)/R
            if (R == −1) return (“no unique logarithm”)
            if (R == 1)
                  log = −t ∞/2
            else           
                  I = R 2 / − R 2 2        
                  ␾ = −2 atan2 R 2 /I, R 0 2        
                  log = − (t ∧ I)/I + 1/(1 − R ) t I␾ ∞/2 − I␾/2
            endif
            }



      F i g u r e 13.5: Computation of the logarithm of a normalized rigid body motion rotor V. One
      may improve subsequent numerics by making sure to return a bivector by taking the grade-2
      element by log 2 .
S E C T I O N 13 . 6   APPLICATION: INTERPOLATION OF RIGID BODY MOTIONS                                                          385




                       interpolation procedure that we had in the vector space model. See Section 13.10.4 for an
                       implementation.


                       13.6 APPLICATION: INTERPOLATION OF RIGID
                            BODY MOTIONS
                       According to Chasles’ theorem, a rigid body motion can be viewed as a screw motion.
                       It is then natural to interpolate the original motion by performing this screw gradually.
                       Figure 13.6 shows how simple this has become: the ratio of two unit lines L2 and L1 deﬁnes
                       the square of the versor that transforms one into the other (see structural exercise 9).
                       Performing this motion in N steps implies using the versor

                                                              V1/N = e log(L2 /L1 )/(2N) .

                       Applying this versor repeatedly to the line L1 gives the ﬁgure. It interpolates the transfor-
                       mation of L1 into L2 and extrapolates naturally. Note how all can be deﬁned completely,
                       and simply, in terms of the geometric elements involved. You do not need coordinates to
                       specify how things move around. The same rotor V1/N can of course be applied to any
                       element that should move similarly to L1 .




                                                                            L2

                                                                                 L1




                                                                                                       transforming a
                          F i g u r e 13.6: The interpolation and extrapolation of the rigid body motion
                          spatial line L1 into a line L2 is done by repeated application of the versor exp log(L2 /L1 )/(2N) .
                          The screw nature of the motion is apparent.
386                                    THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY       C H A P T E R 13




Since the resulting logarithms are bivectors, they can be interpolated naturally themselves.
This allows one to estimate how various points on a rigid body move, establish their
motion bivectors, and average those to get an improved estimate of the motion. Such
numerical estimation techniques for motions are now being developed.



13.7 APPLICATION: DIFFERENTIAL PLANAR
     REFLECTIONS
Now that we have general planar reﬂections available in (13.11), we can redo the exam-
ple of Section 8.5.2, in which we studied a rotating mirror and its reﬂected image using
geometric differentiation. Before, we used what was effectively the vector space model
and therefore could only work in the origin. Now we can treat the fully general planar
rotation.
To restate the problem, we consider the reﬂection of an element X in the dual plane π
              π −1 ) in 3-D Euclidean space. We rotate the plane slightly around line Λ,
(i.e., X → πX
and need to ﬁnd out what this does to the reﬂection of X.
In Section 8.2.5, we performed the differential computation of such perturbed versors in
completely general form, with as a result (8.6) for the bivector of the perturbation versor,
given an original versor and a motion. We can apply this immediately, since the conformal
model gives us these versors: the original versor is the reﬂection versor π, and the motion
is exp(−Λ−∗ ␾/2) with bivector Λ−∗ ␾. Then according to application of (8.6), the versor
displacing the reﬂection should have bivector

      −2␾ (π x Λ−∗ )/π = −2␾ (π Λ−∗ ) π = −2␾ (π Λ−∗ ) ∧ π = 2␾ (π ∧ Λ)∗ ∧ π          (13.16)

The geometric interpretation of π ∧ Λ is the plane perpendicular to π and containing the
line Λ; then the interpretation of the total formula is that it is dual of the meet of this
plane with the dual plane π (i.e., it is dual of the orthogonal projection of the line Λ onto
the mirror π). This line is indicated in Figure 13.7(a). Since the bivector of the resulting
perturbing versor is this dual line, that versor is a rotation around this projected line when
the reﬂection plane changes. This is clear geometry, easily veriﬁed. When it rotates around
this line, the perturbed element follows a curved path: ﬁrst-order perturbations in versors
can lead to element paths of second order.
We would have to do a second-order Taylor series on the position to achieve a similar
effect, so not only are the versor perturbations structure-preserving but they also give us
a much better approximation for the same effort. You can work out the angle of rota-
tion of the perturbation in a similar way as in the origin-based treatment, again resulting
in (8.11).
Note that this computation is not valid for large perturbations: doing the same
construction on a perturbed mirror shows that the projected line changes (since it now
S E C T I O N 13 . 7   APPLICATION: DIFFERENTIAL PLANAR REFLECTIONS                                                               387




                                                                                       X


                                                                             Λ




                                                                                      Xr

                           (a)




                                                                                 X


                                                                             Λ


                                                                                 Xr



                           (b)


                          F i g u r e 13.7: (a) The yellow planar mirror π reﬂects a point X to the point Xr . The green line Λ
                          rotates the mirror; the red curve shows the orbit of the reﬂection in 100 steps. In black is the
                          ﬁrst-order perturbation description of the orbit around Xr . It is a rotation of Xr around the blue
                          line, which is the projection of the line Λ onto the mirror π, which follows the tangent circle
                          to the true orbit. The ﬁrst few black points keep pace with the red points, showing that the
                          velocity is correct. Note that a ﬁrst-order perturbation of the versor generates a second-order
                          curve. Both the black and red curves are on the sphere X ∧ π∗ ∧ Λ∗ (perpendicular to both Λ
                          and π), which has also been depicted, to make the spatial nature of the curves more obvious.
                          (b) The same setup, merely replacing X by a line, to show the universality of constructions
                          in geometric algebra. The black lines are again good ﬁrst-order approximations to the exact
                          results.
388                                    THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY      C H A P T E R 13




needs to be on the perturbed mirror), and therefore the arc changes as well. In fact, it
becomes a caustic, of which the above effectively computes the local osculating cylinder.
Because we have done the whole computation in the conformal model, we can substitute
any of its other elements for X. Figure 13.7(b) shows the whole computation applied to a
reﬂected line. After the next chapter you will not even hesitate to apply it to the reﬂection
of a sphere, circle, or tangent blade.



13.8 FURTHER READING
The conformal model was ﬁrst introduced to the engineering community in 1999 [31],
but its roots can be traced to the 19th century. We will give more speciﬁc references
in the following chapters, when we have more a complete view of its contents and
capabilities.
Commercial applications of conformal geometric algebra to model statics, kinematics
and dynamics of particles and linked rigid bodies are protected by U.S. Patent 6,853,964,
“System for encoding and manipulating models of objects” [32]. Anyone contemplating
such applications should contact Alyn Rockwood or David Hestenes. The patent does not
restrict use of conformal geometric algebra for academic research and education or other
worthy purposes that are not commercial.



13.9 EXERCISES
13.9.1 DRILLS
These drills intend to familiarize you with the form of common geometric elements and
their parameters in the conformal model. We recommend doing them by hand ﬁrst, and
check them with interactive software later.

  1. Give the representation of a point p1 with weight 2 at location e1 + e2 .
  2. Give the representation of a point p2 with weight −1 at location e1 +e3 , and compute
     its distance to p1 .
  3. Give the representation of the line L through p1 and p2 .
  4. Compute weight and direction of the line L.
  5. Compute the support point on the line L.
  6. Give the direct representation of the plane Π through L and the unit point at the
     origin.
  7. Compute the direction and support of the plane Π.
  8. Give the representation of the translation over −e1 of the plane Π.
S E C T I O N 13 . 9   EXERCISES                                                                              389




                         9. Compute the dual π of the plane Π. Compute its dual direction and its moment.
                        10. Compute the dual of the line L.



                       13.9.2 STRUCTURAL EXERCISES
                                                 -
                         1. Show that on the {e, e}-basis, the point p of (13.3) is represented as:

                                                     p = p + 12 (1 − p2 ) e + 21 (1 + p2 ) e.
                                                                                           -

                            In [33] and [15], you ﬁnd the close relationship of this formula with stereographic
                            projection spelled out as a way of visualizing of the conformal model. Unfortunately,
                            it needs the two extra dimensions, so you can only visualize the model for a 1-D
                            Euclidean space. We will provide a better visualization in Section 14.3.
                         2. Show that ∞ o ∞ = −2 ∞ and o ∞ o = −2 o.
                         3. In structural exercise 5 of Section 11.12.2, we introduced barycentric coordinates
                            using the homogeneous model. Using the correspondence between homogeneous
                            model and conformal model, give expressions for the barycentric coordinates in
                            terms of conformal points.
                         4. When studying dualization in combination with versors in the main text, we were
                            mostly interested in the even versors, for which V[X]∗ = V[X∗ ]. For odd versors,
                            you should use V[X]∗ = −V[X∗ ]. Derive both simultaneously by using the general
                            versor transformation of (7.18), which is is V[X] = (−1)xv V X V −1 , to show that
                            V[X]∗ = (−1)v V[X∗ ]. (Hint: What is the sign involved in swapping V −1 In+1
                                                                                                       −1
                                                                                                          ,1 to
                             −1      −1
                            In+1 ,1 V ?)
                         5. For a pure translation versor T, the logarithm is easy to determine. Show that

                                                             log(T) = 21 (T − T ).

                         6. Write the logarithm of the rigid body motion of (13.15) in terms of the logarithm
                            of the rotor R introduced in (10.14). Your goal is to eliminate all I or ␾ from the
                            formula.
                         7. Show that the ratio of two ﬂat points p ∧ ∞ and q ∧ ∞ is a translation rotor. What
                            is the corresponding translation vector?
                         8. Show that the ratio of two general planes passing though a common point p is a
                            rotation versor. Do this in 3-D; you can represent the plane with normal n dually
                            as p (n ∧ ∞). The ratio of two elements is of course identical to the ratio of their
                            duals. What is the bivector angle of the rotation?
                         9. Show that the ratio of two lines p ∧ n ∧ ∞ and q ∧ m ∧ ∞ is a general rigid body
                            motion. What are the screw parameters?
390                                             THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY               C H A P T E R 13




    10. To get back to an issue raised in Section 8.2.2, with translation represented as a rotor
        you can indeed change the position of a point x arbitrarily within a multiplicative
        framework. Show that the transformation by a translation rotor Tt = exp(−t ∞/2),
        when developed in the Taylor series expansion (8.3), generates an arbitrary additive
        change in the position of a point x.


13.10 PROGRAMMING EXAMPLES AND EXERCISES
The implementation of the conformal model of 3-D space is called c3ga. The basis of
the representation space in this implementation is spanned by basis vectors no, e1, e2,
e3, and ni, with the metric as in Table 13.1. As you notice, we write o and ∞ as no and
ni in our code (short for null vector representing the origin and null vector representing
inﬁnity, respectively).5 This, ﬁnally, is the implementation of geometric algebra that is
behind the code of Figure 1.2 in the introductory example of Section 1.1.
The implementation contains a large number of specialized multivector types. Table 13.3
lists the most important ones. We have so far only treated the ﬂats, the directions (labeled
“free” in the table), and the rigid body motion operators (the table uses “rotor” exclusively
for a rotation versor, calling a translation rotor a “translator”). The other elements will
be introduced in the next chapter.
The specialized multivector types are complemented by the matrix representation of out-
ermorphisms (om) and a specialized matrix representation that works well with OpenGL
(omFlatPoint).
In addition to the basis vectors, which are present as constants by default, c3ga also con-
tains some extra constants (see Table 13.4).
A 2-D version of the conformal model implementation is also provided. It is named
c2ga and has most of the same specialized multivector types as its 3-D counterpart, but
of course lacks spheres, freeTrivectors, and so on. We use c2ga in Sections 14.9.1
and 15.8.2.

13.10.1 METRIC MATTERS
As a ﬁrst experiment to conﬁrm that c3ga uses the strange metric of the conformal model,
we print out the metric of the ﬁve basis vectors:
      // get the basis vectors:
      mv bv[5] = {no, e1, e2, e3, ni};
      // ... (omitted)
      for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {



5     When pronounced in a sentence, ni should be emphatic and slightly higher than the other words, whereas no
      should sound like a man imitating a woman imitating a man’s voice.
    S E C T I O N 13 . 10   PROGRAMMING EXAMPLES AND EXERCISES                                             391




                                   // ... (omitted)
                                   for (int j = 0; j < 5; j++) {
                                     printf(" % 1.1f", _Float(bv[i] << bv[j]));
                                   }
                                   printf("\n");
                               }




T a b l e 13.3: A list of the most important specialized multivector types in c3ga.


Name                                Sum of Basis Blades
vector                              e1, e2, e3
point                               no, e1, e2, e3, ni
normalizedPoint                     no = 1, e1, e2, e3, ni
flatPoint                           e1∧ni, e2∧ni, e3∧ni, no∧ni
pointPair                           no∧e1, no∧e2, no∧e3, e1∧e2, e2∧e3,
                                    e3∧e1, e1∧ni, e2∧ni, e3∧ni, no∧ni
line                                e1∧e2∧ni, e1∧e3∧ni, e2∧e3∧ni, e1∧no∧ni, e2∧no∧ni, e3∧no∧ni
dualLine                            e1∧e2, e1∧e3, e2∧e3, e1∧ni, e2∧ni, e3∧ni
plane                               e1∧e2∧e3∧ni, e1∧e2∧no∧ni, e1∧e3∧no∧ni, e2∧e3∧no∧ni
dualPlane                           e1, e2, e3, ni
circle                              e2∧e3∧ni, e3∧e1∧ni, e1∧e2∧ni, no∧e3∧ni, no∧e1∧ni,
                                    no∧e2∧ni, no∧e2∧e3, no∧e1∧e3, no∧e1∧e2, e1∧e2∧e3
sphere                              e1∧e2∧e3∧ni, e1∧e2∧no∧ni, e1∧e3∧no∧ni, e2∧e3∧no∧ni, e1∧e2∧e3∧no
dualSphere                          no, e1, e2, e3, ni
freeVector                          e1∧ni, e2∧ni, e3∧ni
freeBivector                        e1∧e2∧ni, e2∧e3∧ni, e3∧e1∧ni
freeTrivector                       e1∧e2∧e3∧ni
tangentVector                       no∧e1, no∧e2, no∧e3, e1∧e2, e2∧e3, e3∧e1, e1∧ni, e2∧ni, e3∧ni, no∧ni
tangentBivector                     e1∧e2∧e3, e2∧e3∧ni, e3∧e1∧ni, e1∧e2∧ni, no∧e3∧ni,
                                    no∧e1∧ni, no∧e2∧ni, no∧e2∧e3, no∧e1∧e3, no∧e1∧e2
vectorE2GA                          e1, e2
vectorE3GA                          e1, e2, e3
bivectorE3GA                        e1∧e2, e2∧e3, e3∧e1
translator                          scalar, e1∧ni, e2∧ni, e3∧ni
normalizedTranslator                scalar=1, e1∧ni, e2∧ni, e3∧ni
rotor                               scalar, e1∧e2, e2∧e3, e3∧e1
scalor                              scalar, no ∧ ni
392                                        THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY   C H A P T E R 13




      T a b l e 13.4: Constants in c3ga.


                   Name                                Value
                   e1ni                                e1 ∧ ∞
                   e2ni                                e2 ∧ ∞
                   e3ni                                e3 ∧ ∞
                   noni                                o∧∞
                   I3                                  e 1 ∧ e2 ∧ e3
                   I5                                  o ∧ e 1 ∧ e2 ∧ e3 ∧ ∞
                   I5i                                 (o ∧ e1 ∧ e2 ∧ e3 ∧ ∞)−1




(We omitted some code that prints out the names.) The output of this part of the example
agrees with Table 13.1:
             no     e1      e2     e3    ni
      no     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0 — 1.0
      e1     0.0    1.0     0.0    0.0 0.0
      e2     0.0    0.0     1.0    0.0 0.0
      e3     0.0    0.0     0.0    1.0 0.0
      ni   — 1.0    0.0     0.0    0.0 0.0

The example also creates vectors e (denoted as ep) and e- (denoted as em) from no and ni,
according to (13.6):
      // create ’e+’ and ’e — ’
      dualSphere ep = _dualSphere(no — 0.5f * ni);
      dualSphere em = _dualSphere(no + 0.5f * ni);

Note that dualSphere is now the specialized vector type that holds arbitrary 5-D vectors.
The example continues to print out some information about e and e. - The output is

      e+ = 1.00*no — 0.50*ni
      e — = 1.00*no + 0.50*ni

      The metric of e+ and e —:
      e+ . e+ = 1.000000
      e — . e — = —1.000000
      e+ . e — = 0.000000



13.10.2 EXERCISE: THE DISTANCE BETWEEN POINTS
This example draws ﬁve (draggable) points, connected by lines, and prints distance labels
halfway between each pair of points. The exercise is to complete the following code:
S E C T I O N 13 . 10   PROGRAMMING EXAMPLES AND EXERCISES                                                    393




                           F i g u r e 13.8: The output of the solution to Example 2.



                           const normalizedPoint &pt1 = g_points[i];
                           const normalizedPoint &pt2 = g_points[j];

                           // compute distance
                           // EXERCISE: fill in the code to compute the distance between pt1
                           // and pt2
                           float distance = 0.0;

                        Figure 13.8 shows sample output of the correct solution. If you want to write a robust
                        solution, keep in mind that ﬂoating point roundoff error may cause values that should
                        always be less than or equal to zero to turn up as a very small positive number. This may
                        cause trouble when you hand this value (negated) to sqrt().

                        13.10.3 LOADING TRANSFORMATIONS INTO OPENGL, AGAIN
                        In this exercise we repeat the example from Section 12.5.1, but this time we use the con-
                        formal model. The goal is to build up the matrix representation of any outermorphism
                        (in this case, a simple combination of translation and rotation) and to load that matrix
                        into OpenGL.
394                                            THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY           C H A P T E R 13




      F i g u r e 13.9: Example 4 in action. A trail of circles is drawn to visualize the interpolation of
      rigid body motions.



In the homogeneous version, we transformed the basis vectors e1 , e2 , e3 , and e0 , and used
their images to initialize the matrix representation of the transform. We then loaded this
matrix directly into OpenGL.
In the conformal model, the blades e1 ∧ ∞, e2 ∧ ∞, e3 ∧ ∞, and o ∧ ∞ are the closest
equivalent to the aforementioned basis vectors of the homogeneous model, since that is
how the two models relate to each other. Geometrically, these are the blades representing
the basis directions, just as e1 , e2 , e3 , and e0 were in the homogeneous model. Using this,
the code to load our conformal outermorphism into OpenGL is

      // get translator and rotor
      vectorE3GA t = _vectorE3GA(distance * e3);
      normalizedTranslator T = exp(_freeVector( — 0.5f * (t ^ ni)));
      rotor &R = g_modelRotor;

      // combine ’T’ and ’R’ to form translation—rotation versor:
      TRversor TR = _TRversor(T * R);
      TRversor TRi = _TRversor(inverse(TR)); // compute inverse
S E C T I O N 13 . 10   PROGRAMMING EXAMPLES AND EXERCISES                                                    395




                           // compute images of basis blades e1^ni, e2^ni, e3^ni, no^ni:
                           flatPoint imageOfE1NI = _flatPoint(TR * e1ni * TRi);
                           flatPoint imageOfE2NI = _flatPoint(TR * e2ni * TRi);
                           flatPoint imageOfE3NI = _flatPoint(TR * e3ni * TRi);
                           flatPoint imageOfNONI = _flatPoint(TR * noni * TRi);

                           // create matrix representation:
                           omFlatPoint M(imageOfE1NI, imageOfE2NI, imageOfE3NI, imageOfNONI);

                           // load matrix representation into GL:
                           glLoadMatrixf(M.m_c);

                        In Section 16.10.1, we will perform the opposite operation of converting OpenGL matri-
                        ces to conformal versors. We postpone this subject until we can properly handle (uniform)
                        scaling, which is ﬁrst introduced in Chapter 16.


                        13.10.4 INTERPOLATION OF RIGID BODY MOTIONS
                        Since we can now represent translation and rotation as exponentials of bivectors and have
                        their logarithm available (see Section 13.5.3), we can interpolate them with ease. The
                        example presented here is similar to the interpolation example treated in the context of
                        the vector space model (Section 10.7.1), but the conformal model now allows us to do it
                        properly.
                        First of all, we need an implementation of the logarithm of (normalized) translation-
                        rotation versors. This is easily done given the pseudocode in Figure 13.5:
                           dualLine log(const TRversor &V) {
                             // isolate rotation & translation part:
                             rotor R = _rotor( — no << (V * ni));
                             vectorE3GA t = _vectorE3GA( — 2.0f * (no << V) * inverse(R));

                             const float EPSILON = 1e — 6f;

                             if (_Float(norm_e2(_bivectorE3GA(R))) < EPSILON * EPSILON) {
                               // special cases:
                               if (_Float(R) < 0.0f)
                               {// R = — 1
                                 // Get a rotation plane ’I’, perpendicular to ’t’
                                 bivectorE3GA I;
                                 if (_Float(norm_e2(t)) > EPSILON * EPSILON)
                                   I = _bivectorE3GA(unit_e(t << I3));
                                 else {
                                    // when t = 0, any plane will do
                                   I = _bivectorE3GA(e1^e2);
                                 }
                                 // return translation plus 360 degree rotation:
                                 return _dualLine(0.5f *(I * 2.0f * (float)M_PI - (t^ni)));
                               }
                               else
396                                   THE CONFORMAL MODEL: OPERATIONAL EUCLIDEAN GEOMETRY    C H A P T E R 13




              { // R = 1;
                // return translation :
                return _dualLine( — 0.5f *(t^ni));
              }
          }
          else { // regular case
            // compute logarithm of rotation part
            bivectorE3GA Iphi = _bivectorE3GA( — 2.0f * log(R));
            // determine rotation plane:
            rotor I = _rotor(unit_e(Iphi));

              // compose log of V:
              return _dualLine(
                0.5f * (
                — (t ^ I) * inverse(I) * ni +
                inverse(1.0f — R * R) * (t << Iphi) * ni —
                Iphi));
          }
      }

Note the slight misuse of the type system: the function returns a dualLine, which is ofﬁ-
cially a 2-blade. In general, the logarithm of a rigid body motion is not a 2-blade but
a bivector. It just so happens that this bivector can be represented employing the same
basis blades as for dual lines, so we can (ab-)use dualLine as the return type. That is
a consequence of the additive decomposition. But if you would pass the output of this
log() function to draw(), which can only draw blade, it will only draw a line if the screw
happens to be a pure rotation.
The example interpolates from one random versor to the next. These versors are com-
puted as the product of a random translation and a random translated rotation:
      void initRandomDest() {
        normalizedTranslator T1 = exp(_freeVector(randomBlade(2, 3.0f)));
        normalizedTranslator T2 = exp(_freeVector(randomBlade(2, 3.0f)));
        rotor R = exp(_bivectorE3GA(randomBlade(2, 100.0f)));

          g_destVersor = _TRversor(T1 * T2 * R * inverse(T2));
      }

Interpolation between the versors is done using the following function, which is almost
identical to the one used in Section 10.7.1:
      // interpolate between ’src’ and ’dst’, as determined by ’alpha’
      TRversor interpolateTRversor(const TRversor &src,
        const TRversor &dst, mv::Float alpha) {
        // return src * exp(alpha * log(inverse(src) * dst));
        return _TRversor(src * exp(_dualLine(alpha *
           log(_TRversor(inverse(src) * dst)))));
      }
